
===== CF p201 =====
well as various abilities, arcane and emergent, associat-
ed with other species. 
>	
I’ve heard that before. It’s like cold fusion—claims mean 
nothing until they can be duplicated.
>	
Nephrine
The loss of their primary work in Boston was a major 
setback, but it was only the first. They made the mistake 
of petitioning the Corporate Court for access to their 
Boston arkoblock on the grounds that they were on the 
verge of a fundamental breakthrough. Not only did they 
fail to make their case, they painted a big bulls-eye on 
every one of their facilities around the world. All of their 
sites, and all the sites of their subsidiaries, have been 
raided; everything from subtle incursions to smash-and-
grabs. The complaint also attracted the positive atten-
tion of several A- and AA-rated megacorps that have 
approached them with offers to collaborate on what has 
come to be called the “Megacorporate Revision.” This 
widespread attention, both positive and negative, has 
kept Proteus from regaining their lost work or making 
progress in recreating their original research.
>	
Reports can be faked. They could just be trying to make 
other corps think they were further along than they were. 
Get them to throw resources into the black hole that is 
Boston.
>	
Mr. Bonds
>	
Proteus has taken too many other hits for this to be a 
ploy. They lost a big chunk of resources in Boston, and 
they are not among those in control of the situation. The 
AAA megas have pushed out all of the smaller megas in 
control of the NEMAQZ. 
>	
Glitch
NANOTECHNOLOGY
The potential uses and benefits of nanotechnology are 
far too great for even something as potentially dev-
astating as CFD to completely shut down. The future 
in this area will remain uncertain until the problem of 
blocking out or eradicating CFD infections is solved. 
But isolated facilities with safety and security precau-
tions beyond BSL-4 have been working on both solv-
ing that problem and developing a new class of nanites 
that are impervious to CFD. Currently leading the re-
search in this field are Aztechnology and Mitsuhama. 
I was not assigned to investigate NeoNET’s and Evo’s 
nanotech, but I think it’s very likely they’ve made sig-
nificant advances as well.
Aztechnology has been focusing primarily on using 
nanites for short-term boosts, much like combat drugs, 
but with a more concentrated main effect and fewer side 
effects. To limit risk of CFD, the nanites have hard cod-
ing that cannot be modified and limited, non-recharge-
able energy storage. The nanites act as a very specific 
delivery and/or operating system and then clear out 
of the system and shut down when their work is done. 
They follow their pre-programmed series of commands, 
with the system flush as the final part of the command 
sequence, and that’s it. These systems boost speed, 
strength, reflex, agility, mental acuity, pheromone re-
lease, wound repair, and toxin resistance. Once the CFD 
issue is dealt with, expect Aztechnology to flood the 
market with these, especially with security firms and 
military organizations.
MCT has been looking for the silver lining around the 
cloud of CFD. They’ve been using information gathered 
from studying the CFD sufferers—“head cases” I believe 
you call them—and analyzing what those nanites can do 
for the host. Their discoveries have been primarily focused 
on the physical capabilities, but MCT recently discovered 
the ability of some nanites within a head case to function 
as a Matrix device and allow the head case access to the 
Matrix without the use of a commlink or cyberdeck. 
Physical enhancements are very similar to the work 
being performed by Aztechnology, and my reading of 
their documents showed enough similarities to suspect 
corporate espionage. One of the primary divergence 
points in the MCT work is the function of the nanites. 
AZT wants the nanites to function as a focused deliv-
ery system for known compounds to enhance certain 
attributes, while MCT’s research focuses on the use of 
the nanites themselves as the enhancement system. 
Their efforts show requirements for higher quantities 
of nanites with simpler command structures. These sys-
tems perform their single purpose and then flush from 
the system or, as an interesting optional development, 
they self-destruct into biologically useful substances.  
>	
Information I’ve heard says that the “corporate espionage” 
in question might be a collaborative effort. Especially 
since these two had some involvement in the various 
projects in Boston. 
>	
Mika
>	
As Clear suspects, both NeoNET and Evo have projects 
in the works to advance the field of nanotechnology. 
NeoNET seems focused on the use of nanites to form 
simple networks to act as devices with a variety of 
purposes that can be completely internal and very difficult 
to detect when they aren’t in use. The nanites don’t interact 
until a command is given, and then they act as whatever 
device they need to emulate. Civilian applications are as 
simple as a commlink that controls all the devices in your 
home. Militaries and special operations units could have 
cyberdecks, jammers, commlinks, or radio detonators 
hidden in their members. 
Evo is not running from CFD. Everything I’ve seen 
points toward them being the first corp to start accepting 
>> CHROME FLESH <<
200    THE MURKY FUTURE >>

===== CF p202 =====
head cases as citizens or at least offering asylum. This also 
means they’ll have the CFD nanites to study, along with 
the head cases controlling them when they want to utilize 
the technology for the next phase of their evolution.
>	
Plan 9
CHEMICAL 
ENHANCEMENTS
When talking augmentations, most people think in terms 
of permanent solutions to temporary problems. Being 
enhanced helps with specific tasks, of course, but the rest 
of the time? Useless, or annoying, or in the way. There 
are enough drawbacks that a number of corps, including 
one AA in particular, are developing chemical augmenta-
tions that have short, task-specific durations. The biggest 
hurdles in this area are mitigating the after-effects and 
minimizing the likelihood of addiction. Paralleling this re-
search is a form of augmentation that involves the use of 
chemical compounds that have more permanent effects. 
These drugs offer a long-term boost without surgery or 
risk of detection from cyberware scanners or x-ray imag-
ing. Zeta-ImpChem is the frontrunner in perfecting both 
chemical types, but at least one other megacorporation 
has access to their research thus far.  
For single-use chemical boosts, Z-IC has been up-
grading and modifying current combat-enhancement, 
pain-reduction, attention-focusing, and data-processing 
enhancement drugs by adding secondary chemicals that 
allow higher doses and suppress side effects. They’ve 
progressed from clinical to field trials, and with the ex-
ception of addiction issues with the data-processing en-
hancements, they’ve been very successful. Test subjects 
who become addicted to the data-processing report that 
the world seems flat and uninteresting after they’ve seen 
it so clearly. Corporate directives are quite blunt about the 
dangers of mental enhancers and describe serious conse-
quences for any researchers who do not take proper pre-
cautions to confine their effect to prescribed parameters.
>	
Corps don’t want citizens who can think. The employees 
who get most frequently reassigned to the dirt have high 
IQs and tend to be independent thinkers. Corps monitor 
everyone to avoid too much free thought.
>	
Clockwork
Z-IC was on the verge of introducing Chemoware™, 
their long-term chemical-augmentation regimen, when 
the Boston situation sent the corporate world into turmoil. 
They pulled back on marketing and pushed the stock they 
had on hand out for more field-testing. Quite a bit of that 
stock was dropped into the Quarantine Zone. The effects 
of these chemical augmentation systems are not as ex-
treme as their cybernetic or bionetic parallels, but that’s 
part of the point. They’re less obvious, more difficult to 
detect, and the user experiences limited, often negligible, 
disruptions to their biological integrity. An unexpected 
result of this impromptu field test has been the discovery 
that these chemicals seem detrimental to technomancers 
and magicians. The effect is similar to the addiction other 
subjects developed to short-term intellectual enhancers, 
though of course there are no withdrawal symptoms as 
the drugs are always present. The subjects feel as though 
they are more aware and in tune, and they are unaware 
that the careful balance of body and mind they need to 
maintain when manipulating mana or working with reso-
nance is impeded. The extent to which their abilities are 
reduced varies from individual to individual.
>	
Z-IC is poised to make a big jump up the ranks with this. 
That, along with some of the connections we’ve seen 
them make in regard to the Revision, might mean a seat at 
the big table on Z-O or one of the Big Ten getting demoted 
to let the revised Z-IC jump up. 
>	
Icarus
>	
I’ve pulled some numbers together using all the 
connections we’ve seen, speculated, and know for sure. 
Even if only half of those A and AA megas make the 
moves to merge, S-K will no longer be number one. 
Not even close. No wonder work has been so abundant 
lately. Even the biggest of the big boys is at risk of losing 
something here.
>	
Glitch 
Cybertechnology, bioware, genetech, nanotechnolo-
gy, and chemical enhancement are the five augmenta-
tion techniques most widely known, but my employer 
directed me to investigate other approaches to aug-
mentation that are not so mainstream. Among these 
are various arcane augmentation enhancements, a new 
procedure known as e-loading, and even more obscure 
frontiers. None of these techniques is likely to be on the 
menu at street clinics anytime soon, but they are out 
there as options to anyone willing to volunteer as a test 
subject for one of the megacorporations. The megacor-
porations have no shortage of volunteers looking for an 
edge on the street, and no compunction about prom-
ising them whatever they want from the procedure. Of 
course, rounding up involuntary test subjects is a pretty 
straightforward proposition as well. 
>	
I will warn any who are easy to scare (Slamm-0!, I’m 
looking at you) that the arcane uses of augmentation 
enhancement are the stuff of nightmares.
>	
Netcat
  
ARCANE ENHANCEMENTS
Cybermancy is a scary term. Manatech, a name bor-
rowed from more mundane systems like MCT’s Lucifer 
Lamps, has not acquired the same stigma. Yet. While 
>> CHROME FLESH <<
<< THE MURKY FUTURE    201

===== CF p203 =====
standard augmentations are installed and cause inter-
ference with the body’s natural stability, manatech uses 
arcane rituals that bind the augmentation to the user’s 
aura prior to installation. The device is then installed, 
and the biological stability is maintained through ar-
cane bonding. The system has its drawbacks. Primarily 
the fact that the binding forces the user to be perpet-
ually active on and connected to the astral plane. This 
causes issues with wards and manipulation by astral 
entities, among other things. The information on these 
techniques was not acquired from a megacorporate 
site, but from intercepting a courier. Efforts to connect 
the courier and/or the project to the corporation be-
hind the research were unsuccessful. 
MCT and Wuxing are currently working to perfect 
arcane foci that bind or strengthen the subject’s biolog-
ical stability in order to enable enhancements beyond 
what the natural metahuman form could accommo-
date. These foci, called Essence Anchors, are designed 
using principles similar to the cybermantic techniques 
that bind a soul to a body. However, instead of binding 
once the body’s stability is gone, these foci reinforce 
that stability while the subject is still viable. I don’t claim 
to understand ninety percent of the magespeak in the 
research documents, but I understand enough to know 
that the technique works.
>	
This process has blood magic or some kind of vampiric 
draining/transference written all over it. This is not going 
to be an astrally clean process. I would want to get an 
astral peek at subjects using either of these techniques 
and see what kind of astral damage they are causing. 
Cybermancy creates quite a haze, and it damages the 
astral space around it rather quickly. 
>	
Lyran
I have questioned whether to put this last part here, 
as it isn’t exactly an augmentation that anyone should 
volunteer for, but it is a lesson in the lengths to which 
some of the megacorporations will go in order to up-
grade their assets. The relationship between Ares and 
the insect spirits is becoming increasingly known, but 
the extent and characteristics of their relationship are 
not. The public sees Ares as the bug killers. They fought 
to hold them in Chicago, destroyed hives all over the 
world, and then helped clean them out of Chicago so 
that the Containment Zone could be opened. 
They learned how to fight them by utilizing the clas-
sic strategy of studying and understanding your enemy. 
A strategy that always bears the risk of understanding 
the enemy to the point of becoming just like them. Us-
ing your enemy’s own weapons, strengths, and methods 
against them becomes an appealing option. During their 
research into insect spirits, Ares found a technique to in-
fuse their men with some of the strengths and abilities of 
the very enemy they hunted. The designs I was able to 
document included exoskeletal armor, poisoned claws, 
superhuman strength and reflexes, and visual access to 
the astral plane. 
The research and efforts are primarily being per-
formed by UnlimiTech, an Ares subsidiary, but plenty of 
members of Knight Errant, Hard Corps, and Wolverine 
are getting these modifications while working at their 
facilities. Entire Firewatch units are getting augmented 
so that they can better fight the spirits. I didn’t see any-
thing about making these augmentations publicly avail-
able, but if it can boost the bottom line, Ares will sell it 
to someone.
>	
Interesting perspective from a non-insider, Clear. While 
this may seem like an augmentation, and while Ares may 
try to sell it as such, it is in fact simply variations on how 
well the merge goes when a spirit takes over a host. This 
in not augmentation, this is assimilation.
>	
Sticks
>	
I’ve seen some of the results of this, and they’re fairly 
standardized. I’m not entirely sure Clear is wrong here. 
Ares may just be using genetech or biotech to modify its 
citizens with insect features. Insects are successful around 
the world, and they have been the inspiration for a lot of 
inventions over the ages. 
>	
Chainbreaker
E-LOADING
This was one of the first pieces I studied when I start-
ed my survey of experimental approaches to augmen-
tation. The connections to CFD research were right in 
the beginning of the work, and I have been fascinated 
by the virus since first learning about it. This research 
could be part of the silver lining that MCT is looking for 
as well, but it is currently being led by NeoNET.
E-loading uses nanites loaded with specific pro-
gramming to install memories and skills. Using a pro-
cess similar to CFD, the nanites overwrite the user’s 
memories to the point she not only has the desired 
skills, she also has complete memories of learning, 
mastering, and using those skills, making them instant-
ly second-nature. The process has a long list of pros 
and cons to be considered. On the plus side, e-load-
ing is less invasive than skillwires, the skills can’t be lost 
like programs or chips, and there’s no evident damage 
to the psyche or biological integrity of the subject. The 
list of negatives is longer. The skills can’t be switched 
out on the fly, each skill must be loaded individually, 
each must be fully assimilated and integrated before 
the next can be added, and the overwriting creates po-
tentially confusing or disorienting memory gaps and 
overlaps. Of course the biggest negative, and a possi-
ble deal-breaker, is the use of nanites. They are already 
experimenting with new delivery procedures that do 
not involve nanites, but none of these has been per-
>> CHROME FLESH <<
202    THE MURKY FUTURE >>

===== CF p204 =====
fected or thoroughly tested. The new procedures em-
ploy various ways of making modifications directly to 
the brain. Every one is dangerous; every one requires 
time-consuming and meticulous open-skull surgery; 
but they eliminate any and all risk of CFD infection.
>	
That kind of surgery is likely to leave you dead or brain-
fragged. Adding a few skills or memories doesn’t seem 
worth the risk. If we’re talking gold-medal gymnast skills, 
great, but if we’re just looking to help you understand 
which end of the gun the bullets come out of, leave my 
cranium intact. I’ll just visit the range.
>	
Stone
>	
The secondary implications of this are intense. Cloned 
bodies could have memories and skills written directly 
onto their blank brains. 
>	
KidCode
>	
If memories can be added, they can be subtracted, too. 
What’s to prevent the megacorps from using this as another 
control technique as they make people think a certain way 
or delete the memories of their recent activities to protect a 
run, conceal a project, or even hide a murder? Assuming it 
can be made to work on a broad level.
>	
Snopes
DARK DATA
This last point concerns the future and the past of aug-
mentations and all of the information that’s out there, 
somewhere. The information I’ve gathered came from 
megacorporate sources around the world: A, AA, AAA, 
and even a few that are unrated. Many of these data-
stores are isolated and self-contained; none of the cor-
porations have obvious ties to anyone else. The corps 
aren’t cooperating on this issue the way they have for 
the new Matrix or Boston, but all of them are working 
on it, in parallel if not in tandem
A moment ago I mentioned cybermancy and its 
frightening reputation. Until recently I thought I had a 
general idea what cybermancy was, but I didn’t have a 
practical understanding of the process. As it turned out, 
I had less than no idea what it is and absolutely no un-
derstanding of what it involved. A month ago I came 
across my first mention of cyberzombies, which caused 
me to look deeper so I could ferret out hard data. What 
I found scared the hell out of me. I’ll let what follows ex-
plain why that is. Right now, suffice it to say research into 
cybermancy falls into four broad categories: Process 
Perfection, Field Advancement, Subject Production, and 
Subject Appropriation. Some corporations are exploring 
more than one area, but none are working in all of them. 
This is a situation that generates a lot of work for runners 
as each corp tries to discover all it can about what all the 
other corps have learned.
PROCESS PERFECTION
The biggest megacorporations involved in cybermancy 
are working to perfect the process. The major research 
directions focus on astral hazing, subject memory re-
tention, stability duration, ritual times, ritual material 
needs, and facility requirements. 
Eliminating the astral hazing effects that damage 
the manasphere around the subject is a high priority. 
Variations on shielding metamagic have been the most 
successful thus far, but the process requires powerful ar-
canists with a deep understanding of advanced shield-
ing techniques. Individuals like that are rare and several 
have been hot targets for extractions. Dr. Augusta Vides-
sence has been “employed” by four different megacor-
porations over the past year. 
Subject memory retention gained a lot of focus 
after the megacorporations started researching CFD. 
What they found suggested possible ways memories 
could be written in or, in the case of cybermancy sub-
jects, reinforced. Memory retention, memory of self, is 
essential if subjects are to remain viable and under their 
own control. 
Stability duration is also important. Subjects can break 
down quickly once they become active, and their need for 
frequent stability boosts limits their usefulness. The objec-
tive of stability duration research is to find ways to extend 
the time between boosts. Ideally, of course, they’d like to 
eliminate the need for boosts entirely. I was unable to find 
evidence anyone believes that’s possible, but unexpected 
impossible breakthroughs are made all the time. 
Work on the ritual times and materials are often inter-
mingled with two objectives in mind: First, to make the 
process as inexpensive and quick as possible. Second, 
to standardize the procedure so it’s consistent and easy 
for anyone to master. One of the biggest issues here is, 
again, researcher availability. Hermetic magicians with 
the skill level required for this process are rare to start 
with, and the pool gets further narrowed by the need 
for an understanding of several advanced metamagical 
techniques and the moral flexibility to work with very 
non-traditional arcane techniques and unwilling test 
subjects. The already-small list of magicians who meet 
those criteria has been decreasing of late, as likely can-
didates have been turning up dead. 
Experimentation of this type requires a very specific 
setting and very expensive accoutrements. The equip-
ment is hard to come by and expensive, but the bigger 
difficulty is finding and maintaining a location that meets 
all the astral requirements. Maintaining the balance be-
comes more difficult with the performance of each rit-
ual, and eventual relocation is inescapable. While astral 
balance can’t be manufactured, researchers are working 
to develop alternative, less-expensive equipment. The 
attached datafile on field tests and device specifications 
from several megacorp research teams is worth a small 
fortune to the right buyer. 
>> CHROME FLESH <<
<< THE MURKY FUTURE    203
