==== 264 ====
ôBlondie, you there?ö 
EllidaÆs ælink crackled into life as she headed south on I-5. 
She smiled and flicked an ARO to answer. 
ôIÆm here, Legless. WhatÆs shakinÆ?ö 
ôGot an armored limo on the 520 bridge. Too heavy for my 
rig. Thought of you.ö 
ôYeah? Thought of me for how much?ö 
ôTwenty percent.ö 
She snorted. ôMake it ten and IÆll come save your ass.ö 
ôYouÆre killing me.ö When she didnÆt answer, letting him 
stew in the notion that he had called in the contract accep-
tance to dispatch and now couldnÆt fulfill itùa serious black 
mark for any driver on a city contractùhe sighed. ôFine. Ten 
percent. Someday, Blondie.ö 
ôYes, but not today. Send me the details and IÆll send you 
your cut when the jobÆs done.ö 
ôRoger that. Out.ö 
She made her way to the 520 bridge and told GridGuide 
that she needed a priority turnaround. Like magic, a gap 
opened up so she could make a U-turn and pull in front of the 
broken-down limo. Traffic was still moving smoothly, if a bit 
congested, thanks to the automatic rerouting of cars around 
the distressed vehicle. 
Taking a couple of moments to look over the limo before 
she got out of her truck, Ellida saw that it was indeed armored, 
that there were two people inside, and that it was carrying 
some serious equipment in the back. Closer inspection through 
the tinted windows revealed a woman with a sheathed sword 
and a naked pistol scanning the traffic that flowed around the 
car. The other person seemed to be a young kid in a medical 
pod. The well-dressed troll standing next to the limo was also 
armed with some sort of pistol. The tailored suit hid it well, but 
not well enough. 
Bodyguards. Or armed chauffeur and armed nursemaid. 
Same thing. 
The presence of the kid assured Ellida that this wasnÆt going 
to be some sort of hijack. She nodded to herself and climbed 
out of her rig. As she did, she remotely opened the drone rack 
on the top of the cab and ordered Tekkei, her Dragonfly, to be 
her eyes in the sky. Just in case. You never knew with a stop. Es-
pecially since some drivers insisted on manually driving their 
cars like idiots. Or someone decided to spy on and record the 
whole thingùwhich happened with rich people. 
The troll came around the limo to meet her. He turned out 
to be the smallest troll sheÆd ever met. He canÆt be more than 
twenty-five centimeters taller than me, Ellida marveled. Being a 
two-meter-tall Nordic blond, she liked her men big and un-
breakable. She smiled to herself. He probably thinks IÆm the big-
gest human woman heÆs ever met.  
ôWhatÆs the trouble?ö Ellida offered her hand. 
The troll took it in a firm but not crushing handshake. ôSys-
temÆs dead. EMP burst. Maybe.ö 
THE DANGER  
OF SIDE JOBS
260    THE DANGER OF SIDE JOBS


==== 265 ====
ôDead-dead, or do you want me to look at it and see if re-
vival is possible?ö 
He gave a shrug. ôItÆs not going anywhere. YouÆre welcome 
to look at it.ö He leaned in and she could smell an understated, 
spicy hint of cologne. ôBut weÆre in kind of a hurry.ö 
She nodded. Ellida understood what ôhurryö meant. ôTwo 
hundred is the standard fee to get you to the nearest bay.ö 
The troll looked her up and down, glanced at her big rig cab 
with its attached flatbed, and gave her a half-smile. ôInterested 
in making a bit more than that?ö 
Ellida raised an eyebrow in response. 
ôWhat would it cost to get us to Boeing Field?ö 
Probably still bodyguards, but à ôWe expecting company?ö 
The troll looked over his shoulder at the smoothly moving 
line of traffic. ôMaybe.ö 
Ellida put Tekkei on alert for fast, erratic-moving vehicles 
and then calculated. She really wanted to replace the old 
Hedgehog jammer with an Armadillo, and that last couple 
of grand was proving to be hard to earn. ôFive thousand. Up 
front.ö 
ôDone.ö 
No hesitation. No flinching. Frak. The troll was connected. 
ôDamn. ShouldÆve asked for more.ö 
This time, the trollÆs smile was handsome and genuine. 
ôProbably.ö 
She returned the smile and got to work. Quadriga, her 
truck, had all the bells and whistles she could affordùa thir -
teen-speed Paccar MZ 1000 HP engine, drone rack, mechani-
cal arms and winch, and a few extras for when times got tough. 
Right now, times were easy and she attached the winch to the 
front of the limo. Then she maneuvered the arms into hauling 
the worldÆs heaviest paperweight onto her flatbed. 
Tekkei chirped in her head, warning her of two vehiclesùa 
Suzuki Mirage and a modified Thundercloud Contrailùmoving 
up fast, weaving through traffic. Ellida frowned and looked at 
what the Dragonfly was seeing: two motorcyclistsùone hu-
man or elf, one obviously ork. Both of them in blue and silver. 
She glanced at the troll. He was looking back toward the east 
end of the bridge. 
ôThose your people coming up?ö 
He nodded, continuing to look back. ôThink weÆve got 
some time, but àö He left the unspoken request for her to hur -
ry it up hanging in the air. 
Ellida finished getting the limo on the flatbed and locked 
it in place with both chains and a maglock. You couldnÆt be 
too secure when toting rich peopleÆs goods. The whole time, 
the kid in the medical pod watched her with worried interest. 
Ellida did her best to ignore him. She didnÆt want anyone to 
know she could see inside the vehicle. That could lead to some 
unpleasantness. 
ôSee no evil,ö Ellida muttered to herself before straighten-
ing up. ôLetÆs go.ö She watched him glance at the limo for a 
THE DANGER OF SIDE JOBS    261
BY JENNIFER BROZEK

==== 266 ====
moment and saw his throat move. As he did, the two motor -
cycles pulled up. It was clear the runners belonged togetherù
they werenÆt quite in uniform, but they wore similar-enough 
colors. 
ôMind if I ride in the cab with you?ö The trollÆs smile was 
hopeful. ôAlso, I need to pay you.ö 
She shrugged. ôAll right.ö Ellida could think of multiple ways 
to kill her passenger if he got uppity. No one messed with a 
rigger in their vehicle. 
After the two of them settled into the cab, she sent him the 
account information on where to transfer the funds. ôYou can 
call me Ellida.ö 
ôTrollface.ö 
The nuyen tallied up in her account. ôTrollface?ö 
He shrugged and smiled, ôWhat you see is what you get.ö 
Again she found herself smiling at him. The damned troll 
probably had tailored pheromones going. ôGood to know.ö 
As soon as they started rolling, Tekkei alerted her to a third 
motorcyclist on a BMW 2065. Another one in silver and blue. 
This one was hard to miss. His AR made him look like he and 
the motorcycle were on fire with silver-and-blue flame. The 
flaming dude shot past her and through traffic up ahead. 
ôOutrider?ö 
ôYep.ö 
ôArenÆt you guys a bit à matchy-matchy for shadowrun-
ners?ö 
ôNot runners.ö 
Ellida glanced at Trollface. He smiled at her and said noth-
ing more. She thought about what she knew of the area and 
frowned, setting off a data search while she checked the traffic 
between here and Boeing Field. Something was snarling up I-5 
South in a major way. Just as she was going to mention it, her 
search came back with her answer. 
A go-gang? A small go-gang on escort duty? With mon-
ey? None of it made sense. Instead of asking questions, Ellida 
plotted a route around the I-5 snarl. SR-99. Of course. Right 
through some nasty territory. ôI-5Æs frakked. WeÆve got two 
choices: get stuck in traffic or go SR-99 past the shipyards.ö 
She said no more and let the client decide. 
Trollface was quiet for a moment, then said, ôSR-99.ö 
Ellida nodded and put her hidden attack drones, Frick and 
Frack, on alert. They were a pair of Aztecnology Crawlers 
armed with a pistol and a taser, respectively. While she did that 
and headed onto SR-99, she listened to Trollface plan. 
ôCrispy, make a distraction in the downtown area just before 
the shipyards but donÆt get it cranky until after weÆve passed. 
Slaegan, go with him. Keep him from burning the place down. 
Solo, youÆve got the rear. We should have a clean field for you 
to deal with things.ö He turned to her. ôDonÆt stop. No matter 
what. Get us to the airfield.ö 
Ellida didnÆt look at him. She was too busy driving, scanning 
the traffic with Tekkei, and checking GridGuide for problems. 
ôDonÆt teach your grandma to suck eggs.ö Trollface didnÆt re-
spond in words but she saw him nod from the corner of her eye. 
By the time they passed the shipyards, there was a full-
blown riot going on in the downtown district that blocked traf-
fic on both SR-99 and I-5. Ellida had a clear line all the way 
down to the Duwamish Waterway, which gave her a good view 
of the bikers waiting on the overpass. 
ôWe got trouble ahead.ö 
Then she saw the barrier half-balanced on the edge of the 
overpass. The gangers were struggling to get it over the railing. 
Trollface saw it, too. ôFrak. Disassemblers. Solo, be a good girl 
and deal with these bastards.ö 
The rear motorcycle sped by at tremendous speed, heading 
toward the off ramp. The gangers, huge trolls, an ork, and several 
humans shifted to meet Solo, but they werenÆt ready for what they 
got. The woman was more than she seemed as her first kick liter-
ally knocked the head off the first ganger who came to meet her. 
Ellida then turned to focus on her job and get them out 
of harmÆs way. A panel slid back in the hood of the cab, and 
a pop-up turret with a pair of Ares MP-LMGs appeared. She 
took aim at the gangers on the overpass. She didnÆt have to 
get them all. She just had to get enough to keep them from 
dropping the barrier onto the freeway. 
As she fired at them in controlled bursts, making sure 
she didnÆt waste too much ammo, the drivers of the few cars 
around her panicked, slamming on brakes and spinning out of 
control. It was just as well. The gangers on the overpass who 
werenÆt fighting with Solo returned fire. While Trollface ducked 
and winced as the bullets hit the window, Ellida didnÆt. She had 
bought the best bulletproofing money could buy. Though she 
grimaced at what the assault was doing to her custom paint-
job. Quadriga would need a lot of TLC after this. 
When it was clear the Disassemblers werenÆt going to be 
able to drop the barrier, several jumped on motorcycles to 
escape the whirling death of Solo and pursue the rig and its 
cargo. One crazy ganger jumped to the top of the cab, landing 
hard but managing to hold onùat least until Frick crawled out 
of his hole and shot the ork in the face with its attached Colt 
M1991. The ganger tumbled off, screaming. It was an old gun, 
but it still did the job. 
She heard Trollface call everyone in for escort as the rig 
went by the overpass and the first onramp. Ellida saw Solo 
catch up to one of the pursuers and kick him into a ditch. 
ôSlaegan is going to have to jump on. DonÆt hurt him.ö 
ôThe ork?ö 
ôYeah.ö 
Ellida nodded. ôWhere?ö 
ôThere.ö 
Looking up, she watched Slaegan toss a troll onto the free-
way, where he tumbled to the side and popped up like the 
worldÆs biggest whack-a-mole. He was too far to the side for 
her to run over. She saw him readying himself to jump at the 
truck. Slaegan was doing the same. If she swerved, both would 
miss. She would have to trust that Slaegan could deal with him. 
As both took flying leaps for the big rig, Tekkei alerted her 
that another flying drone had come into its airspace and was 
tracking her. Through her eyes in the sky, she saw that it was an 
old, refitted Strato-9 with DisassemblersÆ colors. Stolen fromù
or sold byùLone Star, the thing was still bad news. 
She shifted her focus to driving and the Dragonfly only, 
trusting that Trollface and his gang would deal with the rest. 
Ellida jumped fully in, becoming the Dragonfly as it flew above 
the Strato-9. Assuming the rigger in charge of the drone knew 
what they were doing, theyÆd already seen her. She watched 
for a moment to see if it would respond. When it didnÆt, she 
dived down and landed on top of it. 
The resulting shock just about knocked Ellida back into her 
body. The rig swerved to the side, almost tumbling Slaegan 
262    THE DANGER OF SIDE JOBS


