==== CORE 271 ====
NOISE REDUCTION & SHARING
Along with all the standard features of a commlink, rig-
ger command consoles have Noise Reduction and Shar-
ing ratings that you set when you boot the console. The 
Noise reduction rating is straight-up Noise Reduction (p. 
230), which is cumulative with other forms of Noise Re-
duction. The Sharing rating is the number of autosofts 
you can run on the RCC that simultaneously run on all 
slaved drones at the same time. One caveat: if a drone is 
running any of its own autosofts, it cannot benefit from 
the RCCÆs autosofts.
The total of both ratings cannot exceed the device 
rating of the RCC. You can adjust the values of these two 
special ratings with a Change Device Mode action (p. 163). 
Yeah, that means if your RCC has a Device Rating of 1 it can 
only have one or the other feature running at a time.
DATA PROCESSING & FIREWALL
Rigger command consoles have the familiar Data Pro-
cessing and Firewall ratings from both commlinks and 
cyberdecks, but they lean toward commlinks in their 
functionality since they are not designed for versatility 
and cannot be readjusted on the fly. Data Processing 
is used to determine Initiative when running in VR and 
acts as the Limit for all Command tests performed on 
the RCC. Firewall is used to defend against unwanted 
wireless intrusion onto the entire slaved drone network.
GROUP COMMAND  
AND JUMPING AROUND
Your RCC manages several parallel connections at 
once, so you can give a command to one, all, or some 
of your slaved drones with the same Simple Action. This 
multi-connection also lets you jump from one slaved 
drone to another without first jumping out of the drone 
youÆre leaving. Commands issued from your RCC are 
acted on during the droneÆs Action Phase, not yours.
 Drones receiving multiple contradicting commands 
on the same control levels (see Control Override, p. 
265) before they have a chance to enact those com-
mands on their Action Phase fail to perform any of them 
and instead send an error message back to the users at-
tempting to issue the commands.
PANS & WANS (RIGGER STYLE)
If you want extra protection for your drones and the abil-
ity to command them all at once, you can slave them to 
your RCC. Your RCC can handle up to (Device Rating x 3) 
slaved drones, becoming the master device on that net-
work. The group of your slaved drones plus your master 
RCC is called a personal area network, or PAN.
Whenever a slaved device is called on to make a de-
fense test, it uses either its own or its masterÆs Rating 
for each Rating in the test. For example, if your slaved 
rotodrone is the target of a hackerÆs Brute Force action, 
it could use your Willpower in place of its Device Rating, 
and your RCCÆs Firewall in place of its own Rating, as-
suming that either or both of these Ratings improve on 
what it already has.
The same rules for marks on slaved devices apply in 
the RCC-drone relationship as in other Matrix couplings. 
Most important to you are that if you get a mark on a 
slave, you also get a mark on the master, and that if an 
attacker has a direct connection, your drone canÆt use you 
for help. For more details, see PANs and WANs, p. 233.
COMMAND CONSOLE TABLE
CONSOLE
DEVICE 
RATING AVAILABILITY COST
DATA 
PROCESSING FIREWALL
Scratch-Built Junk 1 2R 1,400Ñ 3 2
Radio Shack Remote Controller 2 6R 8,000Ñ 3 3
Essy Motors DroneMaster 3 6R 16,000Ñ 4 4
CompuForce TaskMaster 4 8R 32,000Ñ 5 4
Maersk Spider 4 8R 34,000Ñ 4 5
Maser Industrial Electronics 5 8R 64,000Ñ 3 4
Vulcan Liegelord 5 10R 66,000Ñ 5 6
Proteus Poseidon 5 12R 68,000Ñ 5 6
Lone Star Remote Commander 6 14R 75,000Ñ 6 5
MCT Drone Web 6 16R 95,000Ñ 7 6
Triox UberMensch 6 18R 140,000Ñ 8 7
>> RIGGERS <<
<< BEING THE MACHINE    267

==== CORE 272 ====
There are also wide area networks, or WANs, with 
multiple devices slaved to a host. This is the world of 
that special kind of rigger, the security spider. They slave 
their RCC to the buildingÆs host and connect to the entire 
security system, including all of its slaved drones. When 
youÆre inside a host, your effective ôphysical distanceö to 
drones slaved to that host becomes zero, even if youÆre 
on the other side of the world. The spider-rigger is often 
teamed up with a spider-decker to help against hacking 
intrusions on the security system.
ELECTRONIC WARFARE 
FOR RIGGERS
No one likes getting jammed out of controlling their 
own stuff. Yeah, the dog-brain pilot takes over, but who 
wants that thing running the show?
If youÆre using an RCC, you can compensate for noise 
on the fly. Take a Complex Action and make an Electron-
ic Warfare + Logic [Data Processing] test. The hits from 
this test act as Noise reduction (cumulative with all other 
Noise reduction) for the rest of the current Combat Turn.
You can turn the tables on an enemy rigger or hacker 
by using a jammer (p. 441). Some rigging purists say that 
using jamming in a rigger duel is dirty pool, but some-
times itÆs just what you need to save your keister.
GETTING HACKED
Rigger command consoles and vehicles, including 
drones, are frequent targets of enemy deckers trying 
to get the upper hand on an opponent. Riggers arenÆt 
deckers, but they arenÆt completely inept in the world 
of electronic warfare. Here are a few important Matrix 
Actions riggers need to know about.
When you know thereÆs a Matrix attack coming, you 
can use the Full Matrix Defense action to bolster your 
cyberdefenses. This option slows you down a bit, but itÆs 
often better than losing control of your RCC or a pre-
cious drone.
Sometimes itÆs better to lose a drone for a few sec-
onds than to have it turned against you or sent careen-
ing into the nearest dense object. You can use the Re-
boot Device action to cut off an enemy hack before it 
gets too far. This take a little time, as your drone wonÆt 
come back online until the end of the following Combat 
Turn, so be aware of the droneÆs environment when you 
perform this trick. A hard reboot wonÆt automatically re-
sult in drone wreckage if youÆre careful. An aerial drone 
that can glide on its wings or on autorotation for a few 
seconds will be fine when it comes back up, and surface 
drones should be okay as long as theyÆre not going too 
fast. If youÆre flying a vectored thrust drone, you should 
probably land it before you do this trick.
GETTING DUMPED
No, we donÆt mean the ôletÆs be friendsö conversa-
tionùweÆve all been there, chummerùwe mean getting 
>> RIGGERS <<
268    BEING THE MACHINE >>

==== CORE 273 ====
booted out of something youÆve jumped into. Riggers 
can be forcefully ejected from their jumped-in vehicles 
in three nasty ways. First, if the vehicle is destroyed or 
bricked, youÆre dumped. Second, if youÆre using a com-
mlink or RCC and it gets destroyed or bricked, dump 
city. Third, if youÆre plugged into something with a uni-
versal connector and your cable gets yanked from ei-
ther end (ouch), you get dumped.
In all three cases, a dumped rigger suffers dumpshock 
(p. 229) and loses control of the vehicle (natch). Vehicles 
with a Pilot Rating will return to autopilot control at the 
beginning of the next Combat Turn. Vehicles are uncon-
trolled (see Control Vehicle, p. 203) until someone else 
takes control.
DRONES
Drones are unmanned vehicles intended to be used re-
motely by riggers or run autonomously. Of course, any 
vehicle or other machine with a rigger interface can be 
run remotely by riggers or autonomously, but drones 
tend to be cheaper, more specialized to their function, 
and donÆt need to pay for parking. Still, the rules for 
drones apply to any remotely controlled or rigged de-
vice, but between us chummers letÆs just say ôdroneö 
because itÆs shorter.
DRONES IN THE MATRIX
Drones are devices, so they show up in the Matrix. This 
can make them a target for enemy hackers, but it also 
means you can reach your drone from anywhere on the 
planet. If youÆre jumped into a drone, the droneÆs Ma-
trix icon and your deviceÆs icon merge. When jumped 
into a drone (or any vehicle for that matter) the attacker 
can only target you (your persona and the device itÆs 
on) and not your drone. When youÆre not jumped in, 
your drone becomes a valid target once again. 
The Device Rating of a drone is the same as its Pilot 
Rating, meaning all of its Matrix attributes are equal to 
the Pilot Rating.
PILOT PROGRAMS
Pilots (the programs, not the people) are not bright. 
TheyÆre called ôdog-brainsö by those who have to work 
with them, much the same way a particularly thick per -
son might be called a ôdrone-headö by those who work 
with him.
A pilot program is specific to the device itÆs in. You 
canÆt just copy a program from one device and move it 
into a different one. After a week or so, the pilot is so 
adapted to the specific vehicle, drone, or other device 
that itÆs useless in anything else, even other devices of 
the same model.
Pilots have a Rating indicated by the Device Rating 
of the vehicle, drone, or other piece of gear theyÆre 
in. This rating is used in place of any Mental attribute 
needed for a test, but it hardly makes up for a metahu-
man brain. When faced with something novel or unex-
pected, or a complicated command, a Pilot program 
must make a Device Rating x 2 Test against a thresh-
old set by the gamemaster based on how confusing 
the situation is. If it fails this test, it blithely continues 
doing what it was doing before, or simply stops en-
tirely and asks for instructions.
AUTOSOFTS
Autosofts are specialized programs designed to in-
crease the effectiveness of a droneÆs performance. In 
other words, people have skills, drones have autosofts. 
An autosoft is rated between 1 and 6. A drone has a 
number of slots to use for autosofts  and cyberprograms 
equal to half its Device Rating, rounded up. Swapping 
autosofts and programs is a Complex Matrix Action.
HereÆs a short list of autosoft programs. An autosoft 
with the term [Model] in it means that each copy is for a 
specific model of drone or vehicle; for example, a Steel 
Lynx Maneuvering autosoft only works for Steel Lynx 
drones and is useless in a Nissan Jackrabbit or a Dober -
man drone.
Clearsight: This acts as the droneÆs Perception skill.
Electronic Warfare: Exactly like the Electronic War -
fare skill.
[Model] Evasion: This autosoft teaches the drones 
autopilot how to avoid being locked onto by Sensors.
[Model] Maneuvering: This is like a Pilot [Vehicle 
type] skill, except that it only applies to one specific 
drone model.
RIGGER CYBERPROGRAMS
Riggers can utilize a number of cyberprograms that deckers 
usually use. Programs purchased for use on an RCC cannot be used in 
a cyberdeck and vice versa. As with decks, RCCs cannot run more than 
one type of program of the same type, even if you rename it. HereÆs a 
list of handy programs for the savvy rigger and their basic function. 
See the Programs section of the Matrix chapter (p. 243) for more detail.
Encryption: +1 Firewall
Signal Scrub: Rating 2 noise reduction
Toolbox: + 1 Data Processing
Virtual Machine: 2 extra program slots; take 1 extra box of 
unresisted Matrix damage when attacked
Armor: +2 dice pool modifier to resist Matrix damage
Biofeedback Filter: +2 dice pool modifier to resist biofeedback 
damage
Guard: Reduce extra damage from marks by 1 DV per mark
Shell: +1 dice pool modifier against Matrix and biofeedback 
damage, cumulative with other programs
Sneak: +2 dice pool modifier to defend against Trace User 
actions
Wrapper: Allows you to defy Matrix iconography rules
>> RIGGERS <<
<< BEING THE MACHINE    269

==== CORE 274 ====
[Model] Stealth: This autosoft helps a drone of a 
specific model operate with as much stealth as possible 
and acts as the Infiltration skill for the drone.
[Weapon] Targeting: This is the Gunnery skill, but for 
a weapon of a specific model. If you mount an Ingram 
Smartgun, youÆll need an Ingram Smartgun Targeting 
autosoft for it.
If a drone is slaved to a rigger command console and 
isnÆt running any of its own programs, it uses the pro-
grams running on the RCC. This can exceed its normal 
program limit.
DRONE COMBAT
Rules for drone combat are the same as those for regular 
flesh-and-blood characters and can be found in the Com-
bat chapter (p. 158). Specific rules for using Gunnery and 
Sensors in combat can be found there as well (p. 202).
DRONE PERCEPTION
A drone observes its surroundings with a Pilot + Clear -
sight [Sensor] Test. If youÆre jumped into the drone, 
you make a Perception + Intuition [Sensor] Test. Either 
way, you get to use the droneÆs entire sensor suite, if 
it has one.
DRONE INFILTRATION
Drones sometimes need to be sneaky. When this 
occurs, a few things need to be taken into consid-
eration. When operating independently, drones roll 
Pilot + Stealth [Handling] vs. Perception + Intuition 
[Mental]. You might want to put your drone into 
silent running mode, or its Matrix icon would be a 
dead giveaway of their presence to anyone scanning 
the scene in the Matrix. When jumped in, the test is 
Stealth + Intuition [Handling] vs. Perception + Intu-
ition [Mental]; you probably want your persona oper -
ating under silent running while youÆre at it.
DRONE INITIATIVE
Drones acting autonomously have an Initiative attri-
bute of Pilot Rating x 2, and get 3D6 additional Ini-
tiative Dice (for a total of 4D6). When jumped in, the 
drone uses the VR initiative of the rigger.
REPAIRING DRONES
Drones have two damage tracks, Physical and Matrix. 
Fill up either one and itÆs bye-bye birdie as the drone is 
either irreparably destroyed and joins the spare parts 
collections, or it gets bricked and itÆs time to completely 
rewire its guts. But up until that final box is filled, damage 
done to a drone can be repaired.
Repairing Physical damage follows the rules for 
building and repair on p. 145. To repair Matrix damage, 
check out Repairing Matrix Damage, p. 228.
If the chassis and the electronics of your drone get 
trashed, it will probably cost you more to fix it than buy a 
new one. But if it has sentimental value, ainÆt it worth it?
>> RIGGERS <<
270    BEING THE MACHINE >>

==== CORE 275 ====
>> RIGGERS <<
EXAMPLE
Driver is chilling out in his modded Eurocar Westwind providing 
surveillance and overwatch for his team. HeÆs currently jacked into his 
Maersk Spider Remote Command Console (RCC). He is running Bio-
feedback Filter, Signal Scrub, and Clearsight autosofts for the Optic-X, 
rotodrone, and LDSD-41 drones slaved to it, along with the Westwind. 
He isnÆt jumped into any of his vehicles at the moment and is instead 
watching everything in VR. All of his drones and his RCC are running 
silent but he has left the Eurocar visible on the Matrix so he doesnÆt look 
suspicious.
Spike is a decker with a serious grudge against Driver due to 
a certain disagreement over whether Driver should date his sister. 
Spike is parked in a nearby alley a mere fifty meters away. He only 
sees DriverÆs car and his cheap throwaway commlink on the Matrix 
in AR, so he jacks into his Renraku Tsurugi and starts scanning the 
local area. Spike has set his deck configuration for troublemaking 
(Attack 6, Sleaze 3, Data Processing 5, Firewall 5) and is currently 
running silent.
Spike performs a Matrix Perception actions, knowing that DriverÆs 
RCC and his rotodrone are running silent within 100 meters. He makes a 
Computer + Intuition [Data Processing] roll, while Driver and his drone 
make their Logic + Sleaze rolls. Spike gets at least one net it on each 
icon, locating both devices. He canÆt find the Optic-X or the LDSD-41 
because theyÆre too far away.
SpikeÆs icon pulls out a glowing wedge as he uses his Hack on the 
Fly action to try to slap a mark on the Rotodrone. Spike would normally 
roll Hacking + Logic [Sleaze] v. Intuition + Firewall, but the rotodrone is 
slaved to DriverÆs RCC and can therefore use the RCCÆs Firewall instead. 
Spike succeeds, and the wedge slips into the droneÆs icon and and then 
dissolves into a tiny little iridescent bulls-eye emblem. This puts one 
mark on the rotodrone and a matching one on DriverÆs RCC, since itÆs 
the master device
With no obvious alert, Spike gives it another shot. This time he goes 
for two marks and taking the û4 penalty. Rolling Hacking + Logic [Sleaze] 
v. Intuition + Firewall, the rotodrone gets more hits. Wrong move, Spike 
gets marked. Since the rotodrone is a device, its master Driver gets the 
mark on Spike and the jig is up.
The gamemaster calls for Initiative to be rolled and we enter Combat 
Turns.
Initiative Scores are: Spike 23, Driver 19, rotodrone 14
Initiative Pass one starts with Spike on 23. He drops silent running 
and makes another Hack on the Fly action (Hacking + Logic [Sleaze] v. 
Intuition + Firewall) against the rotodrone and scores 2 net hits. He now 
has 2 marks on DriverÆs persona.
The rotodrone initiates Full Matrix Defense, decreasing its Initiative 
Score but giving it a bonus equal to its Pilot rating (used in place of Intu-
ition). It doesnÆt take any action this Action Phase since it has no current 
commands to follow.
Driver recognizes the icon of Spike that just appeared fifty meters 
away when the mark hit him, and he knows what this is all about. He 
uses the Send Message Simple action to command his rotodrone to at-
tack the vehicle Spike is in. His second Simple Action goes to another 
Send Message action for the Optic-X to lock onto the car and follow it 
if it gets away.
With a command to follow and having not acted in this Action 
Phase, the drone swings out of the alley and comes around to attack 
the car, peppering the car with gel rounds as commanded. No one rolls 
since the Stun damage does nothing but make a lot of noise and mess 
up the cosmetics of the car.
The gamemaster drops Initiative Scores by 10 and starts the second 
Initiative Pass: Spike 13, Driver 9, Rotodrone û6 (it had already lost 10 for 
its Full Matrix Defense).
Spike doesnÆt realize heÆs being shot with gel rounds and uses a 
Data Spike action on the rotodrone. He rolls Cybercombat + Logic [At-
tack] v. Intuition + Firewall. As the drone is a slave to Driver, he battles 
DriverÆs Intuition and Firewall, plus his Willpower since the rotodrone 
is using Full Matrix Defense. He scores 4 points of damage on the ro-
todroneÆs Matrix monitor.
Driver uses a Simple Action to Send Message and orders the ro-
todrone to land and reboot. Due to its defensive manuevers, the rotodrone 
doesnÆt have an action this pass, so it canÆt follow its command yet.
Initiative Pass three leaves only Spike with an Action Phase in which 
he uses Data Spike again, but after rolling poorly, he loses and takes 1 
box of Matrix damage as the Firewall bounces bad code back at him.
ItÆs the start of a new Combat Turn, and the new Initiative Scores 
after rolling are: Spike 17, Driver 21, Rotodrone 22, Optic-X 16.
The rotodrone lands and reboots.
Driver activates the Rating 4 area jammer in his Westwind and uses 
Send Message to order the LDSD-41 (armed with real bullets, APDS in 
fact) to line up a shot but await the fire command.
Spike uses Send Message to order his car to get out of there and 
Check Overwatch Score to see if heÆs starting to attract attention (the 
answer is yes). Autopilot on the car joins Initiative, rolls 18 and immedi-
ately reduces the total by 10 for the Initiative Pass that has gone by in 
this Combat Turn, leaving it to act on 8.
LDSD-41 Takes Aim on two Simple Actions.
The second Initiative Pass makes the Initiative scores: Spike 7, Driv-
er 11, rotodrone rebooting, LDSD-41 6, SpikeÆs Americar 8.
Driver uses a Jump into Rigged Device action with the Westwind 
just in case.
SpikeÆs car rolls out of the alley and starts to drive away, obeying all 
local traffic regulations.
Spike uses the Control Device action to drive the car and overrides 
the autopilot as he peels away.
LDSD-41 Takes Aim on two Simple Actions.
The third Initiative Pass (Initiative Scores: Spike û3, Driver 1, Ro-
todrone rebooting, LDSD-41 û4, SpikeÆs Americar û2) starts and ends 
with Driver laughing at the car driving away and using Send Message to 
send a message to Spike that says, ôWeÆll talk later.ö
At the end of the Combat Turn, the rotodrone completes its reboot 
and comes back online, free of marks.
A new Combat Turn and the new Initiative Scores are: Spike 24, 
Driver 23, rotodrone 18, LDSD-41 16, SpikeÆs car 14.
Spike uses a Data Spike action and attacks DriverÆs RCC. He rolls 
Cybercombat + Logic [Attack] v. Intuition + Firewall and hits the RCC 
with 3 boxes of damage.
Driver uses a Send Message action to send Spike a message say-
ing, ôCould have been your head! Walk away!!!ö and a second Send 
Message action to order the LDSD-41 to fire.
LDSD-41 fires and nearly disables the car.
Spike uses Send Message to reply, ôPeace. See you later.ö
Driver angrily goes back to being on watch, pissed that he has to 
deal with his girlfriendÆs spoiled corp-kid of a brother.
<< BEING THE MACHINE    271

==== CORE 437 ====
Smart firing platform: This is a non-mobile robotic 
tripod equipped with a remote control pivot that allows 
for a 180-degree firing arc and a 60-degree inclination. 
You can mount one smartgun-equipped weapon to the 
platform, and it will be fired by the deviceÆs onboard Pi-
lot (Device Rating 3). The platform is equipped with a 
Targeting Autosoft (Rating 3) and can be upgraded with 
additional autosofts, usually a Clearsight program. You 
need to set the parameters of who exactly the platform 
should and shouldnÆt shoot at, which are followed by the 
platformÆs pilot (Pilot Programs, p. 269). The platform 
provides 5 points of Recoil Compensation. It has an Ini-
tiative attribute of Pilot x 2 and 4D6 Initiative Dice when 
acting autonomously (see Drone Initiative, p. 270).
Wireless: You can fire the mounted weapon remote-
ly (Control Device, p. 238), like a drone with no rigger 
interface. You can use an implanted smartlink with the 
smartgun if youÆre in VR.
Smartgun system: This connects a firearm or a 
projectile weapon directly to the userÆs smartlink. In-
corporating a small camera and laser range finder, the 
smartlink keeps track of ammunition, heat buildup, and 
material stress. If you have a smartlink, you can men-
tally switch between gun modes, eject a clip, and fire 
the gun without pulling the trigger. The camera lets 
you shoot around corners without exposing yourself 
to return fire (at a û3 dice pool penalty). The system 
makes use of advanced calculation software, allowing 
for precisely calculated trajectories and high precision 
over any distance.
If youÆre using a smartlink, the smartgun system in-
creases the gunÆs Accuracy by 2. The smartgun features 
are accessed either by universal access port cable to an 
imaging device (like glasses, goggles, or a datajack for 
someone with cybereyes) or by a wireless connection 
working in concert with direct neural interface.
Retrofitting a firearm with an internal smartgun sys-
tem doubles the weaponÆs price and adds 2 to its Avail-
ability. An external smartgun system can be attached to 
the top mount or underbarrel mount with an Armorer + 
Logic (4, 1 hour) Extended Test. The small camera has a 
capacity of 1 and can be equipped with vision enhance-
ments (p. 444).
Wireless: A wireless smartlink provides a dice pool 
bonus to all attacks with the weapon: +1 if youÆre using 
gear with a smartlink or +2 if youÆre using an augmen-
tation for which you paid Essence. Ejecting a clip and 
changing fire modes are Free Actions.
Spare clip: A spare clip comes unloaded but can hold 
the maximum rounds for the weapon. Each clip is spe-
cific to the weapon you buy it for, but they all cost the 
same. And yes, itÆs technically a detachable box maga-
zine, but the Cityspeak word for it is so popular these 
days that even the catalogs call them clips.
Speed loader: The speed loader is a simple device 
that holds a ring of bullets for fast insertion into a revolv-
erÆs cylinder. Each speed loader is specific to the weap-
on it was designed for. It lets you fully reload a revolver 
as a Complex Action instead of having to load rounds 
one at a time (Reloading Weapons table, p. 163).
Tripod: The tripod provides a stable base to fire a 
weapon low to the ground with the user kneeling or 
sitting. A tripod can be attached to the underbarrel 
mount and provides 6 points of Recoil Compensation 
when properly deployed. Attaching a tripod takes one 
minute. Folding up or deploying the bipod is a Free 
Action.
Wireless: Folding up, deploying, or removing the tri-
pod is a Free Action.
AMMUNITION
Ammunition is defined by type (regular, gel, APDS, 
etc.), class of firearm (light pistol, heavy pistol, assault 
rifle, etc.) and as cased or caseless. Unless indicated 
otherwise in its description, a gun can fire cased or 
caseless ammo, but not both.
For simplicity, each kind of gun can trade ammo with 
another of its class: for example, all heavy pistols can 
share ammo. 
>> STREET GEAR <<
AMMUNITION
AMMO, PER 10 SHOTS DAMAGE MODIFIER AP MODIFIER AVAILABILITY COST
APDS ù û4 12F 120Ñ
Assault cannon ù ù 12F 400Ñ
Explosive rounds +1 û1 9F 80Ñ
Flechette rounds +2 +5 6R 65Ñ
Gel rounds +0S +1 2R 25Ñ
Hollow points +1 +2 4F 70Ñ
Injection darts ù ù 4R 75Ñ
Regular ammo ù ù 2R 20Ñ
Stick-n-Shock û2S (e) û5 6R 80Ñ
Tracer ù ù 6R 60Ñ
Taser dart ù ù 3 50Ñ
<< GEAR LISTING    433

==== CORE 445 ====
instantly severing the direct connection. This does not 
harm the cable.
Headjammer: The headjammer is used by security 
personnel to neutralize implanted commlinks. When 
itÆs attached to your head (or other body part) and ac-
tivated, it works in the same way as any other jammer, 
with its effects limited to you and your augmentations. 
Removing a headjammer from someone without the 
proper key requires a Hardware + Logic [Mental] or a 
Locksmith + Agility [Physical] (8, 1 Complex Action) 
Extended Test. Removing a Headjammer from your -
self without the proper key is an Escape Artist + Agility 
[Physical] (4) Test, requiring a Complex Action.
Jammer: This device floods the airwaves with electro-
magnetic jamming signals to block out wireless and ra-
dio communication. The jammer generates noise equal 
to its Device Rating. The area jammer affects a spherical 
areaùits rating is reduced by 1 for every 5 meters from 
the center (similar to the blast rules for grenades). The 
directional jammer affects a conical area with a 30-de-
gree spreadùits rating is reduced by 1 for every 20 me-
ters from the center. The jammer only affects devices 
(and personas on those devices) that are within the jam-
ming area, but it affects all of them. Walls and other ob-
stacles may prevent the jamming signal from spreading 
or reduce its effect (gamemasterÆs discretion).
Wireless: You can set your jammer to not interfere 
with devices and personas you designate.
Micro-transceiver: This classic short-range com-
municator has been favored by professional operatives 
since the 2050s. It doesnÆt do anything special, it just 
lets you communicate by voice with other micro-trans-
ceivers and commlinks that you (and the other person) 
choose, within a kilometer. The micro-transceiver con-
sists of an ear bud and an adhesive subvocal micro-
phone (p. 439), both of which are commonly available 
in hard-to-spot designs.
Wireless: The micro-transceiverÆs range becomes 
worldwide.
Tag eraser: This handheld device creates a strong 
electromagnetic field perfect for burning out RFID tags 
and other unshielded electronics. It is probably strong 
enough to destroy a commlink, and you might want to 
keep it away from your cyberdeck just in case. When you 
bring the eraser within 5 millimeters of an electronic de-
vice and push the button, the device takes 10 boxes of 
Matrix damage (resisted normally). The extremely short 
range makes it hard to use on targets like vehicles, most 
drones, maglocks, and cyberware (and by the time you 
open them up to get at the electronics, youÆve already 
done plenty of damage). The tag eraser has one charge 
but can be fully recharged at a power point in 10 seconds.
Wireless: The tag eraser recharges fully in an hour by 
induction.
White noise generator: This device creates a field 
of random noise, masking the sounds within its area 
and preventing direct audio surveillance. All Perception 
Tests to overhear a conversation within (Rating) meters 
of a white noise generator receive a negative dice pool 
modifier equal to the generatorÆs Rating. If more than 
one generator is in use, only count the highest rating. A 
white noise generator is redundant in a noisy environ-
ment (such as a nightclub or a firefight) and does not 
help to curtail video surveillance or jam wireless signals.
Wireless: The white noise generatorÆs effective radius 
is tripled.
SOFTWARE
Software can be purchased as an online download or less 
commonly on chip from physical stores. Datasofts, map-
softs, shopsofts, and tutorsofts can be easily stored and 
accessed on a commlink, dataterminal, or cyberdeck.
Agents and cyberprograms: These are used in cy -
berdecks and are explained in Programs, p. 243.
Autosofts: For information on these programs for 
drones, see p. 269.
Datasofts: Datasofts encompass a wide variety of in-
formation files, databases containing information on ev-
erything from hydraulic fracturing to 18th century roman-
tic poetry. An appropriate datasoft gives you a +1 bonus 
to your Mental limit on related Knowledge Skill Tests.
Mapsoft: Mapsoft programs feature detailed infor -
mation about a particular area, from streets to business/
residential listings to topographical, census, GPS and 
environmental data. An interactive interface allows you 
to quickly determine the best routes and directions, lo-
cate the nearest spot of your choice, or create your own 
customized maps. If a wireless link is maintained, the 
map automatically self-updates with the latest data from 
GridGuide. Of course, this feature also means that the 
mapsoft can be used to track your location. At the gam-
emasterÆs discretion, mapsofts provide a +1 limit bonus 
to Navigation Tests made to navigate the area they cover.
Shopsofts: Shopping apps like Clothes Horse, Cave-
at Emptour, and Guns Near Me provide pricing break -
downs and user reviews for comparison shopping 
purposes, both for standard goods and black market 
purchases. Shopsofts self-update regularly to stay cur -
>> STREET GEAR <<
COMMUNICATIONS
DEVICE AVAIL COST
Bug scanner (Rating 1-6) (Rating)R Rating x 100Ñ
Data tap 6R 300Ñ
Headjammer (Rating 1-6) (Rating)R Rating x 150Ñ
Jammer, area (Rating 1-6) (Rating x 3)F Rating x 200Ñ
Jammer, directional 
(Rating 1-6) (Rating x 2)F Rating x 200Ñ
Micro-transceiver 2 100Ñ
Tag eraser 6R 450Ñ
White noise generator 
(Rating 1-6) Rating Rating x 50Ñ
<< ELECTRONICS    441

==== CORE 446 ====
rent. An appropriate shopsoftùone exists for each type 
of product like electronics, firearms, melee weapons, ar-
mor, et ceteraùprovides a +1 bonus to your Social limit 
for all Availability and Negotiation tests you make to buy 
and sell those items.
Tutorsofts: These virtual private tutors aid you in 
learning a specific skill. The tutorsoft makes Instruction 
Tests with a dice pool equal to its Rating x 2. Tutorsofts 
cannot teach skills based on Magic or Resonance.
SKILLSOFTS
A skillsoft program is a recorded skillùdigital knowl-
edge and muscle memory. When used in conjunction 
with the proper augmentations (a skilljack for know -
softs and linguasofts, and a skillwire system for active-
softs) skillsofts let you know and do things youÆve nev -
er otherwise learned. Even kung fu.
Skillsofts arenÆt educational tools; you canÆt actually 
learn from them. TheyÆre highly favored by corporations 
interested in a cheaper labor force (when the difference 
between a skilled and unskilled worker can be as simple 
as slotting a chip, the difference in salary is smaller).
When a skill test is called for, the character may use 
the skillsoft rating in place of the skill. Downside: tests 
made with a skillsoft may not be boosted with Edge in 
any way.
Activesofts: Activesofts replace physical active 
skills, basically every Active skill that isnÆt based on Mag-
ic or Resonance. A skillwire system (p. 455) is needed to 
translate the æsofts into usable muscle memory. ThereÆs 
a limit to the number of skills you can use at once, based 
on your skillwireÆs rating.
Knowsofts: Knowsofts replicate Knowledge skills, 
actively overwriting the userÆs knowledge with their own 
data. Knowsofts must be accessed with a skilljack, and 
the number you can use at once is limited by the skilljack.
Linguasofts: Linguasofts replicate language skills, 
allowing a user to speak a foreign language by auto-
matically translating signals from the speech cortex, 
although chipped speech can be awkward and stiltedù
then again, so can anyone speaking a language thatÆs 
not their native tongue. Linguasofts must be accessed 
with a skilljack, which limits how many skillsofts you can 
use at a time.
ID AND CREDIT
IDs and credsticks are discussed in more detail under 
Identification, p. 366.
Certified credstick: Cash for the late 21st century. A 
certified credstick is not registered to any specific personù
the electronic funds encoded on it belong to the holder, re-
quiring no special ID or authorization to use. The bad news 
is that you can be physically mugged, any money you have 
on your credstick jacked and rolled. The good news is that 
certified credsticks are completely untraceable. TheyÆre not 
even wirelessùyou have to slot them into a universal data 
connector to transfer cash onto or off of them. This makes 
them enduringly popular with shadowrunners and the Mr. 
Johnsons who love to hire them.
Each type of credstick can only hold up to a certain 
amount of money, listed on the table. This is the maxi-
mum amount it can carry, not the amount it always has 
on itùso donÆt get excited when you see a gold cred-
stick until youÆve slotted it and checked its balance.
Credit account: A credit account is an online bank -
ing account that can be accessed at any time via your 
commlink. Transactions require passcode or biometric 
verification to be authorized. The good news is no one 
can (physically) steal your bank account, and hacking 
credit accounts often requires a run to Zurich Orbital or 
something equally suicidal. The bad news is that digi-
tal transactions leave a ôpaper trailö that, while it can be 
hidden or concealed, is entirely too traceable for seri-
ous criminal activities. Each account must be registered 
to a particular (usually fake) SIN, unless the account is 
handled by an anonymous underworld banking service 
(with its own risks and complications). The cost of bank-
ing services is included in your lifestyle costs if youÆve 
got a Low Lifestyle or betterùotherwise youÆll need to 
keep all your money on credsticks.
Fake system identification number (SIN): In 2075, 
youÆre just a number. A SIN (or its international equiv -
alents) is what makes a mere metahuman into a real 
person. Solid citizens receive their SINs at birth and car-
ry them until they die. Not having a SIN means living 
outside the system, living with restricted or non-existent 
civil rights. Shadowrunners by default are SINlessùthey 
>> STREET GEAR <<
SOFTWARE
PROGRAM/SOFTWARE AVAIL COST
Agent (Rating 1û3) Rating x 3 Rating x 1,000Ñ
Agent (Rating 4û6) Rating x 3 Rating x 2,000Ñ
Autosoft Rating x 2 Rating x 500Ñ
Cyberprogram, common use ù 80Ñ
Cyberprogram, hacking 6R 250Ñ
Datasoft 4 120Ñ
Mapsoft 4 100Ñ
Shopsoft 4 150Ñ
Tutorsoft (Rating 1û6) Rating Rating x 400Ñ
SKILLSOFTS
SKILLSOFT AVAIL COST
Activesofts (Rating 1û6) 8 Rating x 5,000Ñ
Knowsofts (Rating 1û6) 4 Rating x 2,000Ñ
Linguasofts (Rating 1û6) 2 Rating x 1,000Ñ
442    ELECTRONICS >>

==== CORE 457 ====
EYEWARE
Probably the most common piece of cyberware avail-
able in 2075 is cybereyes. Originally designed to gift 
the blind with normal sight, cybereyes allow for far 
more than normal human vision. While they still car -
ry a social stigma in places, and the idea continues 
to carry a degree of squeamishness about it, itÆs not 
entirely uncommon for people with perfectly good 
natural eyes to trade them out for cybernetic replace-
ments. Cybereyes are available in any shape or color, 
from ôalmost naturalö to all chrome to solid glowing 
purple and everything in between. Some models have 
their color and pattern easily altered by downloading 
a new skin.
Most cybereye modifications are also offered as ret-
inal modifications to the natural eye. Vision enhance-
ments either take up Capacity in cybereyes or Essence 
in natural eyes, not both. As a general rule, upgrades are 
applied to both eyes so that the userÆs vision doesnÆt be-
come unbalanced.
Cybereyes: The basic cybereyes system features 
20/20 vision for both eyes, an image link, and a built-in 
camera at no extra cost, as well as capacity for vision 
enhancements.
Flare compensation: An implanted version of the 
flare compensation enhancement (p. 444).
Image link: An implanted version 
of the image link enhancement (p. 
444).
Low-light vision: An implanted 
version of the low-light vision en-
hancement (p. 444).
Ocular drone: This enhancement 
only affects one eyeball per purchase. 
A small spyball drone is placed in your 
ocular cavity. The spyball functions as a 
normal cybereye (with all the relevant 
enhancements) until you remove it and 
control it as though it were a Horizon 
Flying Eye (p. 465). When itÆs out and 
you have only one eye, you suffer a 
û3 dice pool penalty to all tasks. If you 
replace both eyes with drones, youÆre 
effectively blind while those drones 
are operating apart from you. An ocu-
lar drone is obviously not available as a 
retinal modification.
Retinal duplication: This highly il-
legal modification can be loaded with 
a recording of someone elseÆs retina 
to create an almost perfect reproduc-
tion. Make an Opposed Test between 
the retinal duplication Rating and the 
retinal scanner Rating (Security De-
vices, p. 362).
Smartlink: An implanted version of 
the smartlink vision enhancement (p. 
444). Note that a smartlink installed in a natural eye or in 
a pair of cybereyes is more effective than a smartlink in-
stalled in an external device: see Smartgun System, p. 444. 
Thermographic vision: An implanted version of the 
thermographic vision enhancement (p. 444).
Vision enhancement: An implanted version of vi-
sion enhancement (p. 444).
Vision magnification: An implanted version of the 
vision magnification enhancement (p. 444).
EARWARE
Earware, like eyeware, is available either with complete 
cybernetic replacements (with the modifications cost-
ing Capacity) or as a direct modification to the inner 
ear, costing essence. As a rule, upgrades are installed 
in both ears to prevent an imbalance of hearing.
Cyberears: Ordinarily, cyberears replace only the 
inner ear, although the whole thing can be replaced 
as well if you like. Cyberears offer hearing with normal 
ranges (like an omni-directional microphone), a sound 
link, and Capacity for modifications and enhancements.
Audio enhancement: An implanted version of audio 
enhancement (p. 445).
Balance augmenter: The balance augmenter en-
hances the inner earÆs natural balance mechanism. You 
>> STREET GEAR <<
HEADWARE
DEVICE ESSENCE CAPACITY AVAIL COST
Commlink 0.2 [2] ù 2,000Ñ + Commlink Cost
Control Rig
     Rating 1 1 ù 5R 43,000Ñ
     Rating 2 2 ù 10R 97,000Ñ
     Rating 3 3 ù 15R 208,000Ñ
Cortex Bomb
     Kink 0 [1] 12F 10,000Ñ
     Microbomb 0 [2] 16F 25,000Ñ
     Area Bomb 0 [3] 20F 40,000Ñ
Cyberdeck 0.4 [4] 5R 5,000Ñ + deck cost
Datajack 0.1 ù 2 1,000Ñ
Data Lock (Rating 1û12) 0.1 ù Rating x 2 Rating x 1,000Ñ
Olfactory Booster (1û6) 0.2 ù Rating x 3 Rating x 4,000Ñ
Simrig 0.2 ù 12R 4,000Ñ
Skilljack (Rating 1û6) Rating x 0.1 ù Rating x 2 Rating x 20,000Ñ
Taste Booster 0.2 ù Rating x 3 Rating x 3,000Ñ
Tooth Compartment ù ù 8 800Ñ
Ultrasound Sensor (Rating 1û6) 0.25 [2] 10 Rating x 12,000Ñ
Voice Modulator (Rating 1û6) 0.2 ù Rating x 3F Rating x 5,000Ñ
<< ELECTRONICS    453

