

===== PAGE 7 =====
JACKPOINT
Connecting to JackPoint VPN...
...Identity Spoofed
...Encryption Keys Generated
...Connected to Onion Routers
>>>Login: XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
>>>Enter Passcode: XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
...Biometric Scan Confirmed
YOU’RE IN. USE IT WELL.
> “To hold a people in oppression, you have to convince them first that they are 
supposed to be oppressed.” -John Henrik clarke
JackPoint Stats
Interaction rate: +31%
Posts per hour: -2%
Today’s content quality 
(signal:noise): 7:6
93 Users are active
Latest News
> There is a mob within one 
kilometer of your current 
location. It is unclear if they 
are angry or not.
Personal Alerts
> You have 18 new private 
messages.
> You have 20 new responses 
to your JackPoint posts.
> The transcript of 
CrimeTime’s Hall of Fame 
induction speech  
is downloaded and  
ready to read.
There are 7 members online 
and in your area.
Your current rep score: 765 
(68% Positive)
Current Time: 17 Aug 2079, 
0858 hrs
Welcome back to JackPoint, chummer:
Your last connection was severed 10 hours, 33 minutes, 
and 28 seconds ago.
Today’s Heads Up
> JackPoint has set a record for most suspensions in a day. Don’t 
irritate me any more.—Glitch
Incoming
> Fight for your life long enough, and you end up in Seattle. Weird. 
[Tag: Seattle Gambit]
> You had me at a “warhammer that shoots bullets.” [Tag: Street Lethal]
> The world doesn’t have enough good guys. Time to apply for that 
hero job. [Tag: Better than Bad]
Top News Items
> Ghostwalker condemned by CAS, UCAS, PCC, and Sioux Nation. 
He issues a statement of “extreme lack of caring.” Link
> UCAS Congress abruptly shuts down FBI investigation of reputed 
secretive land purchases in DeeCee, citing lack of evidence of 
anything criminal. Link
> Detroit presents lavish incentive package to Ares to rebuild corp 
headquarters in the city; Ares response muted. Link


===== PAGE 8 =====
TRANSCRIPT OF CRIMETIME’S ROCK & ROLL HALL OF FAME INDUCTION SPEECH
Thank you. Thank you. I really appreciate this. I know it may not sound like it, but I do. That’s just 
my voice. Not built to sound happy, you know? But I am. I appreciate you letting me in to this hall of 
fame. Hell, I appreciate you letting me into the damn building in the first place.
 <mild laughter>
No really, I wasn’t sure I was going to get in. I thought I dressed pretty mild, thought I didn’t look 
threatening, but I still seen some of those security guards scoping me up and down, and getting 
nervous the longer they looked. They glanced at each other, and I could practically hear their 
thoughts, I could hear them, and they were saying to themselves, “This trog motherfucker really 
supposed to be here?”
<gasps>
Oh, what, did I say something wrong? Tell me this—which word didn’t you like? You don’t want 
me cursing? Fine, I can do that. But was it the other word? Was it “trog?” Yeah, that was the one. 
Weren’t expecting to hear someone say that, were you? Well, I can say it. It’s my word. Our word. I 
can say it when I want. The rest of you—no. Not yours. Those of you who weren’t saying it before, 
you keep on not saying it. And there’s some of you out there who keep saying it and shouldn’t be. 
You shouldn’t. It’s not yours, so you should stop. Me, I’ll say it whenever I want.
But I got off track. The bouncers, they let me in even though they were suspicious, and I’m 
grateful. Because I didn’t always get into places, right? That’s how it is for all of us, when we were 
young and struggling, we tried to get in places and play shows, and we couldn’t always get in. And 
that’s all right. If I can’t attract ten thousand people to my show, I shouldn’t be playing no stadiums, 
and I got that. That’s cool.
But that’s not the only thing that keeps us out, neh? There were times, when I was young, I could 
play a club that didn’t have no fire systems or even a good floor, a place that might collapse at any 
minute, and I could draw hundreds. Hundreds! I could pack the place. Then I’d go to some of the 
other places, the places that were, you know, up to code, and I’d try to play, and they’d say no. No, 
don’t play here. You want to know what they told me? You want to know what they’d say? They’d say 
the insurance was too high. That’s what they’d say. They’d give themselves cover that way, make it 
sound like it’s out of their hands. We’d love to have you play. Insurance is just too damn high.
Why is it too high? Because people out there think that you get a bunch of trogs together, we 
gonna break stuff. That’s it. So you keep us out of the nice spots, you keep us down, because you 
think we’re not civilized enough to let in. I could draw five hundred people and make fifty nuyen, 
while some nice elf girl with a guitar gets two hundred people in a good spot and gets paid three 
hundred nuyen. And then you wonder why we seem so angry.
But I’m not angry. I’m here. You let me in. And I’m grateful, I’m truly am. What I want to tell you, 
though, is that there are so many other great ones out there. Young kids, with big tusks and thick 
horns, and they are laying out their pain and their joys in ways you never heard before. They are 
making music you can’t imagine, because they are living lives you can’t imagine. It’s amazing stuff, 
man. It’ll blow your mind. But first you gotta hear it. So stop making excuses. Stop being scared. 
You go out there when this is over and remember that CrimeTime said something simple. He said 
let them in. Just like you let me in here. You got nothing to lose and everything to gain. Listen to 
them. Let them in.


===== PAGE 9 =====
BELINDA
Arthur ground his teeth together and imagined how this 
douchebag’s single silver tusk would weather a solid punch. 
The fingers of his right hand twitched instinctively to form a 
fist, and his hand blazed with pain. His autoinjectors hadn’t 
kicked in—they must have been damaged during the fight 
that broke his hand—which meant no painkillers. He growled 
in aggravation and pain.
The douchebag, a well-dressed ork, grinned at Arthur’s 
growl, and his tusk flashed scarlet with the nearby stoplight’s 
reflection. “This is going to go one of two ways.” He clasped 
his manicured hands together. “One, you cooperate with us. 
We go down to meet Mr. Theo like a big, happy family. He 
pays you the money he owes you—”
Arthur wiped his left hand over the sanded-down stubs of 
his horns and punched his fist into his thigh. “Enough! Stop 
talking! Where is she?”
“I’m sorry, what now?’”
“You trashed my place after I figured out that your boss is 
a double-crossing piece of drek!” 
Silvertusk looked askance at his associate. An eyepatch that 
glowed with the All-Seeing Eye in shifting colors covered one of 
her eyes, and she stared into space with the other. If her apathy 
concerned Silvertusk, he didn’t show it. “No worries,” Silvertusk 
patted the air, his tone of voice melting to honey. “No worries, 
chummer. Mr. Theo will give you your money—and your girl. 
We’ll go our separate ways, and never the two shall ever meet 
again, et cetera.” He held his hands out like a pair of scales. He 
took a deep breath and lowered one hand. “Or—”
A popping sound drifted from Arthur’s jaw as teeth-grind-
ing turned to jaw-clenching. His tusks pricked his lip, and he 
tasted copper. Theodosius, his fixer, paired him with a new 
team for a personal mission, he’d said. However, when secu-
rity showed up exactly when and where they were supposed 
to deliver their package, he knew it was no coincidence. Ar-
thur barely escaped, and when he got home, he found his 
place trashed. Blind with rage, Arthur had gone for his spare 
Ruger to chase after them—he had lost his original in the fight 
that broke his hand—but they’d taken it. Then his gaze had 
landed on the door: hanging open, half off its hinges. Belinda 
was gone. Arthur shook with rage at the memory.
“—if it does happen that way, then things will go a little 
differently. We’ll beat you bloody, maybe there’ll be some 
gunplay. But however we play, I’m sure it will be exciting. 
We won’t do it here in beautiful Downtown. We’ll need to go 
somewhere less …” He pondered theatrically, “… sensitive to 
violence than Downtown.”
Arthur glared at Silvertusk, ignoring the theatrics and lost 
in thoughts of the impact of fist on face, the crunch, the spit 
8    >> BELINDA <<


===== PAGE 16 =====
>	
Anyone else notice how this always comes back around 
to humans? “Sub-human,” “meta-human.” Always either 
a comparison to humans or how it affects them.
>	
2XL
>	
They say racism is dead. Don’t believe a word of it.
>	
Butch
>	
Cool it. He was all of five years old at the time.
>	
Respec
After eighteen years, this new batch of racism 
was all grown up and now a fully functioning social 
disease. In 2039, a building wave of assaults and 
crimes against metahumans crested in the Night 
of Rage, with riots breaking out across the globe. 
Thousands died—though the exact number is un-
clear, both because many metas were not count-
ed as citizens, and so their deaths could be over-
looked, and because the rioting crowds couldn’t 
be bothered to track just how many victims their 
violence was claiming.
>	
I’m gonna step in here and say this never made any sense 
to me—the claim that everyone lost their collective drek 
at once. I’ve read other threads about this, and no one 
can point out anything that happened that could have 
triggered this worldwide protest.
>	
/dev/grrl
>	
It’s tempting to believe there was coordination or even 
a global conspiracy behind this, and I’m not going to 
claim that that some of the anti-meta groups weren’t in 
communication with each other. But sometimes evil is a 
spontaneous emotion. 
>	
Snopes
In response to the riots that broke out, the 
Governor of Seattle thought it would be a good 
idea to round up all the trolls and orks in the city 
and stash them in warehouses, ostensibly for their 
own safety. But really so they could keep an eye 
on them, and also keep them in one place in case 
the government decided to activate some sort of 
final solution.
>	
I’ve long wondered about what happened that night, so 
I drew up a chart for Seattle that night. At first I thought 
Mercury’s combust, but there’s a big Sun-sized orb there, 
so that’s obviously out. We’ve got Uranus in the 11th 
opposing Mars, we’ve got Mars trine Saturn—Old Man 
Saturn’s using Mars against the eccentrics who’ve banded 
together. And that’s not even going into Leo in the 12th, 
the Virgo Ascendant opposing nearly everything else. 
You know, regal Leo in the house of secrets could easily 
manifest as superior race themes.
>	
Chiron
>	
Stop trying to change the subject.
>	
Lilith
Naturally, plenty of people didn’t want to wait 
for the government to make up its mind, so they 
took things into their own hands. A terrorist group 
called the Hand of Five firebombed the warehous-
es, and hundreds of people died. The city erupted 
in riots again. 
Chances are good that your parents or your 
grandparents lived through the Night of Rage and 
the aftermath. Whether or not they survived the 
night is a question for which I don’t have an an-
swer, but I guarantee you it changed their lives in 
some way. My moms started homeschooling me 
after the Night of Rage. At three years old, I wasn’t 
paying much attention to the news, so it didn’t af-
fect me much beyond that. But I was one of the 
luckiest ones.
>	
Just a reminder for everyone: This wasn’t written with the 
intention of public display.
>	
Chiron
>	
What’s wrong? Embarrassed for him? It’s okay, I am too.
>	
Lilith
>	
No, I’m not embarrassed—I don’t think there’s anything 
wrong with a safe and happy upbringing—but you’ve told 
me your thoughts, and I thought others might share your 
views.
>	
Chiron
>	
Guess we’ll find out.
>	
Lilith
Legal actions peppered throughout the last 
forty years have brought the extent of the prob-
lems to light, even if they haven’t done much to 
curb them.
Since you were born, though, the landscape 
is drastically different. Or’zet is recognized as an 
official language. There are kingdoms out there in 
the world dedicated to orks and trolls. Neither of 
these existed twenty or thirty years ago. Orks are 
now, thanks to the genetic disposition to multiple 
births—and I swear if I hear the word “litter” used 
within my earshot, I will become violent—the sec-
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WHAT ARE YOU?    15


===== PAGE 17 =====
ond-most common metatype in the world. (As a 
side note, I’ve always been envious of people with 
siblings—I hope you realize how lucky you two 
are.) Since you’ve been born, there have been de-
bates that, twenty years ago, I never would have 
dreamed I’d see, as to who is more of an ork: those 
who were born orks, or those who were born hu-
man and goblinized into an ork (I believe the term 
they used was “half-ork”). But because the world 
is so different than we older folks are used to, I 
think it tends to make us blind to the troubles that 
do affect you.
So, I hereby officially acknowledge that you 
have seen more than your fair share of troubles. 
I’ve heard of the altercations you’ve had with oth-
ers, seemingly solely based on your metatype, 
and no, it’s not fair. I acknowledge problems re-
main with our lot in life, and I recognize the prec-
edent that seems to justify an aggressive response.
Christianity and Islam pegged us a long time 
ago under the categories of demons, devils, and 
other assorted abominations and heretics. Add 
in the fact that neither of those churches has had 
much of a soft spot for magic, and even if they 
aren’t quite as damning of us as when we first 
showed up in the twenties, we are nevertheless 
profoundly disliked by the faiths. Some of the re-
awakened faiths out there are more accepting, but 
I’ll admit I never spent much time embroiled in dis-
cussions about who hates or tolerates us based on 
their faith. I probably missed a lot of opportunities 
to find out exactly who hated me. Ah, if I’d only 
cared enough to engage.
>	
As something of a subject matter expert, I can tell 
you Seattle’s a secular city. I simply don’t see religion 
separating Seattle residents as much as the media claims, 
or as much as it does in other parts of the world.
>	
Goat Foot
>	
A metahuman is more likely to get roughed up for being 
in the wrong part of town than for speaking with someone 
from a faith that “dislikes” them.
>	
Traveler Jones
We have to deal with an environment built 
for smaller people—in some cases, much smaller. 
Ceilings aren’t tall enough, doorways aren’t wide 
enough. Chairs break underneath us, we barely 
fit on the mattress. It’s infuriating, it causes inju-
ries, and it’s unnecessary. But despite the number 
of orks and trolls in the world and our collective 
spending power, you’ll only find furniture sized to 
fit us in a few special places. There are a few spots 
downtown where you’ll find appropriate seating, 
but expect to pay a few hundred nuyen per plate 
to dine there. Similarly, if you can find a venue run 
by an ork or a troll, chances are better that they 
have the right-sized spots for you to sit, but it’s no 
guarantee. Not everyone can resist the siren call 
of cheap, particularly when the standing stereo-
typing leads people to avoid your venue based on 
trumped-up fears.
I don’t have an explanation for you. If you’d like 
to change things, all I can do is tell you is to either 
join the government or buy a woodshop and a tu-
torsoft. I chose the latter and have been comfort-
able ever since.
Even our biology seems out to get us. We have 
tusks, which cause extra problems—jaw problems 
and soft-tissue injuries of the mouth and face 
come to mind. Horns can split or snap. I’ve heard 
of rare cases where the horns curl just so and be-
gin to grow into the scalp. Much worse than an in-
grown hair. Dermal deposits can cause skin prob-
lems and even injury to others.
The biological difference that gets the most 
press for orks, though, is our shorter lifespan.
>	
You know, rumor has it that there was a guy named Harry 
who was one of the first orks to goblinize in 2023.  After 
he lost his position as Mayor in 2056, he retired to one of 
the warrens under Puyallup, where he mentored some of 
the group that would go on to become the Bot’Kham, who 
frequently referred to him as “grandfather.” They were 
never very forthcoming as to whether this was literal or 
figurative. Harry finally passed away two years ago, in ‘77.
>	
Butch
 
>	
Assuming that Harry was really young when he goblinized, 
that would make him nearly sixty when he died. That’s an 
extraordinary lifespan for an ork, especially one that lived 
in the Underground and likely had very little medical care.
>	
Winterhawk
>	
That medical care aspect is important—see some notes 
later on in the posting about new observations on ork and 
troll lifespans.
>	
Glitch
>	
Harry had the same rare condition I do. Homo sapiens 
robustus clarkus, they call it.  It’s an anomaly in one of 
the metagenes that causes a human to goblinize as an 
ork. The goblinization process is the same, and we’re 
genetically identical to every other ork out there, except 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
16    WHAT ARE YOU? >>


===== PAGE 18 =====
that we’re not affected by the more rapid aging process 
that most orks suffer from. Instead, we apparently get a 
normal “human” lifespan. Current science says that less 
than one percent of goblinized orks have this trait.
>	
Bull
>	
This might not be as rare as it seems—read on in this 
download and you’ll see some scientists casting doubt as 
to what is making our lifespans short, and the prospects 
for how long we might actually live.
>	
Butch
>	
I always wondered why you didn’t look nearly as old as 
you should, Bull.  Though you certainly act like it some 
days. Lucky you.
>	
Slamm-0!
>	
Yeah, lucky me. I’ve already outlived one child, and if Billy 
doesn’t get himself killed as a runner, he’ll possibly die of 
old age before me.  Some luck.
>	
Bull
 
Plenty of orks out there take the “live fast, die 
young” notion to heart. The media tells us all about 
the ones who spend their days trying to pull one 
over on anyone who crosses their path, if it only 
means they can eke out an edge for tomorrow’s 
exploits. You hear about orks like Magdalene Wild, 
who spends her days pulling crazy stunts in urban 
brawl. But you also hear about orks like Vaibhav 
Chadha, making waves in publishing, if only for 
his prolific pace. Or me. I’m someone who took 
that notion to heart a long time ago, terrified at 
the prospect of a shorter lifespan. My fear fueled 
me through school, and I came out the other end 
a doctor. I doubt I would have had the fire to get it 
done if not for that terror.
How do the longer-lived races view us? Well, 
we’re a category in tourist’s guidebooks. Rather, 
the level of violence toward us is the category. 
While I appreciate the inclusion … Listen, I know a 
lot of people of all different metatypes from all over 
the globe. I’ve only ever had two conversations 
with people concerned that I’ll die before they did. 
The first was my mom, and I started the conversa-
tion when I was eight. The second was a friend. She 
was an elf, and it turned out that her concern was 
misplaced. She died a few years ago. But my point 
stands that I don’t believe the longer-lived races 
think much about our shorter lifespans. Everyone 
is too busy with their own drek and how they’re 
squandering their own time to worry about us.
So there’s precedent there to justify being 
pissed off. What do we do about it? I think you 
have two alternatives. The first is the same as I ad-
vised you earlier: join government. It’s not a joke. I 
realize you’re far more likely to work firmly outside 
the sphere of government, but if you ever change 
your mind, I think you could work wonders.
>	
Hahahahahahahaha *gasp* hahahahaha!
>	
Lilith
Before I get into the other alternative, let me 
tell you the real reason I’m writing this. There was 
a conversation I watched a couple of weeks ago, 
on some news coverage of an attempted bombing 
downtown. One of the eyewitnesses said there 
was “a trog” involved. Someone else said there 
was a troll involved. But they weren’t describing 
the same person.
Now, I realize we’re talking about two different 
witnesses—completely unrelated. One of them 
was called out for being a “racist douche;” no one 
really said much about the other—but the thing 
that struck me was the difference between the two 
descriptions. “The trog” was said to be huge—at 
least three meters—and raucous: hanging out the 
window, had some enormous weapon, everything 
that would come to mind if you mentioned a troll 
boogeyman. By comparison, “the troll” was de-
scribed as “seeming small for a troll,” while also 
being well-dressed.
So, if we start our investigation by ignoring 
the fact that we’re comparing the word choice of 
two people who are, as far as we know, complete 
strangers—hey, if social science isn’t real science, 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
NEW QUALITY:  
HUMAN LIFESPAN
COST: 10 KARMA
This quality can only be taken at character creation. 
It replaces the ork’s normal average lifespan with that of a 
human, so they age and mature at a human rate. It has no 
other effect on the character.
Goblinization is the expression of the ork and troll 
metagene in a human, transforming them painfully into a new 
metahuman form, usually around puberty. Today goblinization 
is exceedingly rare, with most metahumans expressing 
naturally at birth. It’s not clear at the moment just how common 
this quality is among non-goblinized orks.
<< WHAT ARE YOU?    17


===== PAGE 29 =====
the warlords were looking for resources that were 
left behind. 
The orks of the CZ were just one of those re-
sources. The Horde took in a lot.
SB: What about the trolls? You mentioned them 
earlier. Do you know how they fared?
D: Better than many would have expected. Very 
few managed to get accepted into the communi-
ties of the smaller races. If they thought an ork was 
a resource hog, imagine a troll’s daily caloric intake. 
It’s pretty insane. So most of the trolls went the solo 
nomad or hermit route. The trolls lived on their own 
so that they were only responsible for themselves. 
They were big, burly, and could survive in plenty of 
places that made most people sick. While the bugs 
targeted them for their potential, they were, by and 
large, the ones most capable of standing against 
them and living to tell the tale. 
Yeah, a lot of them found their way into the 
crews of warlords all over the CZ, but the majority 
flew solo, made it through, and came out as some 
of the toughest trogs around. After the bug threat 
lessened and the CZ opened back up, the trolls 
of Chicago have had a chance to come together, 
share stories, develop a network, and build the 
foundation of one of the strongest troll societies 
I’ve ever seen.
That’s the modern Chicago trolls. Isolation and 
a genuine independence offered them the oppor-
tunity to get away from the expectations of the 
other races. It was their chance to make a place for 
themselves somewhere that no one else seemed 
to want.
SB: It’s good that someone outside the culture 
noticed. Please go on, this should be good. An 
outsider’s view on Chicago’s troll culture.
D: I’m no expert. But I’m happy to tell every-
one what I know. The trolls here in Chi-town have 
worked hard. They deserve some props.
As most folks who are interested already know, 
trolls are the most literate race. Pushed to the 
fringes of society, they’ve lived in the past. Librar-
ies have been a favorite troll residence in every 
city I’ve ever seen. They’re built big, and they’re 
all but abandoned and obsolete these days. Filled 
with books. And trolls have used them, including 
in Chicago. 
The trolls here squatted in many of Chicago-
land’s libraries since well before ’55. After the CZ 
got locked up, they had solid places to hole up 
and gather. A lot made maps that were coded to 
get their fellow trolls from one safe library to the 
next. Books, art, and music were just a few of the 
offerings troll society has managed to master and 
present with a grace no one would expect.
SB: You really get it. 
D: I’m not done bragging on you all just yet. 
The trolls in Chicago have stepped their efforts up 
to the next level in terms of making a place trolls 
can call home and live comfortably. All over the 
CZ, C-Cubed travels and does their thing. C-Cubed 
stands for Chitown Construction Crew. They’re 
based out of a little enclave called Hoodville, but 
they move all over. They gut structures and refit 
them for trolls. Reinforce, resize, and genuinely re-
new the places. They tend to stick with multistory 
spots, but there’s no shortage of those in Chicago. 
The buildings don’t just get floors and ceilings—
they get culture, art, and a genuine renaissance feel. 
SB: Do you know 3D? C-Cubed’s founder. 
D: Heard of, never met.
SB: We’ll have to change that.  
D: Sounds like a cool guy. He’s got a lot on his 
plate, though. From what I’ve heard recently, the 
efforts of C-Cubed are like giant bullseyes for oth-
er groups in the CZ. Hoodville isn’t far off the Hu-
man Brigade’s turf, and plenty of meta-unfriendly 
types have very little issue with fragging up any 
efforts to make life better for our kind. 
SB: So true! Sorry to cut you off, D-Wreck. We 
need to cut the interview short. Seems some of 
those meta-unfreindly types you mentioned have 
gotten wind of our location. 
This is Suzie Blue and Chicago’s own, D-Wreck, 
signing off. Stay trog, Chicago! 
DUBAI
POSTED BY: 2XL
Dubai is one of those cities where you can spend 
most of your day with people treating you nor-
mally, politely even, until you get one of those 
incidents that reminds you that something is off. 
Sometimes it’s really subtle—someone bringing 
up, apropos of nothing, how they really like Neil 
the Ork Barbarian, and if Neil was a real ork, they’d 
be totally okay with having him in their home. 
Other times it’s the ever-classic “Your horns are 
so shiny! They look smooth! Can I touch them?” 
These are the things that remind you that, in the 
eyes of most of the residents of the city, you are 
not normal. You are other. That then puts you in 
the spiral that gets you to wonder how much of 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
28    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 30 =====
the normal interactions were actually normal, or 
if people were forcing themselves to be normal, 
putting on the mask of politeness that is pretty 
easy to tear. So you get tense, and sometimes all 
the nonsense makes you snap, and people go off 
and talk about how it seems like orks and trolls 
are always angry.
Now, that sort of atmosphere is not unique to 
Dubai, but the general conservatism of the Arabi-
an Caliphate and some of the negative attitudes 
in the nation to anything associated with magic 
accentuate it. But Dubai is a cosmopolitan city, 
where people see themselves as more sophisti-
cated than their non-urban counterparts. That’s 
part of the issue—rather than actually being ac-
cepting, they often strain to show themselves how 
accepting they are. It’s better than a lot of alterna-
tives, sure, but it still can be wearying.
Dubai is a financial capital, with all the positives 
and negatives that implies. If you can make your-
self financially useful to someone, then people 
are willing to overlook a whole lot in order to reap 
whatever you offer. If you’re not financially useful? 
Garbage haulers leave the city daily, and they al-
ways have room for one more piece of refuse.
>	
It really is as bad as all that, or at least close. Expanding a 
desert city is a lot more difficult than building out in cities 
placed in more habitable areas. They don’t want to build 
more than they have to (unless it’s a showy new skyraker), 
and they don’t want to make space for the useless. Buying 
you a plane ticket out of town can be cheaper than keeping 
you around, so that is often their preferred solution.
>	
Am-mut 
Another downside of the financial orientation 
of the city is that people keep an eye on available 
bounties that might make a nice payday. So if you 
pissed someone off who might put a little extra on 
your head due to your tusks or horns, someone in 
town is going to find out about it. You’d better be 
worth more to them than the bounty is, or things 
are going to go south for you fast.
The easiest way for an ork or troll to gain ac-
ceptance in the Caliphate is to be a Muslim. Once 
people see you kneeling next to them regularly in 
prayer, they become a whole lot more accepting. 
Which is to say if you can fake religious sincerity, 
you’ve got it made.
>	
We don’t have to be like that, do we? Is it so outlandish 
that some of us might operate out of genuine religious 
principles? Or at least have enough respect for them to 
not use them as a thin disguise? I’m sure the faces of 
JackPoint have enough tools at their disposal to build 
trust that we don’t have to rely on something so cheap.
>	
Goat Foot
>	
Life has taught me one thing repeatedly: Take the 
opportunities you are given.
>	
Haze
But let’s talk about a few issues specific to 
the city itself. Physically, the city has healed 
from the wounds left when Hestaby attacked 
the Saeder-Krupp headquarters here. The new 
building is gleaming and posh, with a curved 
top that cuts into the sky like a scimitar. As one 
might expect from Lofwyr and his corp, the 
headquarters do not back away from anything. 
But while the building is fully occupied and bus-
tling, the mental memories of the attack don’t 
disappear quickly. Most of the people in the city 
were there when the attack happened, and the 
memories are fresh. This leads to insecurity, and 
metahumanity has a funny way of letting those 
insecurities out.
As one might expect, dragons are the chief tar-
get of this brand of anxiety, but that’s of little con-
sequence. What is the city going to do, ban drag-
ons? Alamais is dead, so the dragon most likely to 
stop by won’t, but even if another dragon decides 
to visit, the city and Caliphate are not likely to stop 
them. If the life of Ghostwalker has shown the 
world anything, it’s that stopping a dragon from 
going where it wants to go is not something you 
want to try without another dragon leading your 
forces.
>	
The Az-Am War taught the same lesson.
>	
Picador
The city, then, has not taken any direct action 
against dragons, but drakes are another matter. 
Drakes are outright banned. They don’t want any 
part of people who are doing the bidding of drag-
ons but can disguise themselves as humans. Want 
to make a quick 50k in Dubai? Find a drake wan-
dering the streets and bring him into the authori-
ties—dead or alive.
>	
You can even bring a drake from outside and present 
them to the authorities. They don’t ask many questions. 
Getting bodies through customs is a bitch, though.
>	
Kane
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< LIVING AS A TROG IN...    29


===== PAGE 31 =====
But what does this mean for orks and trolls? 
First off, we’re not the most reviled metatype in 
the city. So that’s something! But secondly, it gives 
a common enemy who is not us, which presents 
another chance to bond with the locals. Spend 
enough time not being a drake, and you may win 
some people’s trust.
The most important thing to remember about 
Dubai is that it is a nonsensical city, an oasis willed 
into existence by oil sheikhs, rather than built in 
a way that makes sense. These sheikhs were sav-
vy—they knew a diversified economy is what a 
city needs to survive, so they built Dubai to out-
last the oil boom. Despite the fact that the average 
high tops thirty-seven degrees for a whopping 
five months of the year, there are still golf courses, 
soccer fields, tennis courts, and other outdoor ac-
tivities (it also has an indoor skiing facility, because 
of course it does). It’s a desert that has convinced 
itself it’s a beach, and damned if it doesn’t do an 
awfully good imitation.
One of the obstacles the city has built for it-
self, though, is it doesn’t have the deep history 
of world-class cities such as Berlin, Beijing, and 
New York. It built its reputation on being glossy 
and new, and one step ahead of everyone else in 
terms of eye-popping architecture and luxury. You 
do not maintain that reputation by standing still, 
so Dubai is constantly under construction. A build-
ing that’s a decade old has lost its edge, and if a 
building makes it to two decades, it’s an antique. 
You either need to tear it down or find a way to 
gut it that will make it fresh again. Some people 
figure Hestaby did Lofwyr a favor in taking down 
the S-K headquarters, as it was going to be due for 
a rebuild before long. 
While automation and nanonforges do a lot of 
this work, metahuman labor is still required, and 
like most cities with large pockets of luxury, those 
who do the work are not allowed anywhere near 
the good stuff in their downtime. Northeast of 
the city is the district called Muhaisnah, known 
sarcastically to the locals as Sonapur, the City of 
Gold. This area is full of plain concrete buildings 
with dwelling spaces that total twenty square me-
ters if you’re lucky. Most workers sleep on thin 
mats that aren’t much softer than the floor but at 
least provide a degree of separation from the sand 
and dust. The good news is that they don’t need 
kitchen space, or even a food budget, because 
meals are provided to them. The bad news is that 
the “meals” are lentil paste, three time a day. If you 
were judged to have worked well in a particular 
day, you might get a flavor packet.
>	
Any city depends on its manual labor, but Dubai’s bigwigs 
sometimes forget this and don’t protect their workers 
well. All the lentil paste is processed in huge batches in 
a factory right in Muahaishah. Want to bring the city to 
a halt? Mess with the food supply, and keep the workers 
off-duty for a day, a week, or more. You’ll see panic set in 
nice and quick.
>	
Stone
Why am I detailing this? Because, you guessed 
it, Muhaishah has the highest percentage of orks 
and trolls of any neighborhood in the sprawl. Are 
you a trog who wants to disappear and be unno-
ticed in Dubai for a while? Muhaishah is the place 
to be. Just don’t carry around expensive, obvious 
weapons, and be prepared to experience desert 
heat without a trace of air conditioning.
If you want to spend time in the more civilized 
part of the city, more power to you. The good 
news about the sprawl is that so many buildings 
are new that they are built with ork and troll ac-
commodations in mind. There are few cities 
where trolls will have to spend less time ducking 
their heads under doorways than Dubai, and al-
most every establishment has chairs that not only 
fit but generally are comfortable. 
The bottom line on Dubai is this: If money can 
be spent on a thing to make orks or trolls com-
fortable, and you’re not in the slums, that thing is 
probably there. If it can’t be changed with mon-
ey—like people’s attitudes—then you’re going to 
have less luck getting anything done here.
ATLANTA …  
KINDA SORTA
POSTED BY: SOUTHERN GUARD
All right, folks, I want to talk about Atlanta, or Hot-
lanta as some call it, and specifically Sweetwater 
Creek! Seattle’s Ork Underground and its Prop 23 
and racist governor got tons of Matrix love, but 
we’ve had plenty of problems of our own in a place 
that is just as much a haven for the orks and trolls 
of the Atlanta region as the Ork Underground was 
for Seattle. As you can tell by my moniker, I’m a 
resident. I work for the best security corp on God’s 
green Earth—and I’m proud to tell anyone who 
asks, because this place is a trog utopia. 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
30    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 39 =====
facing another group that at first made them think 
they needed to pack up again. Instead, they were 
happily taken in. Their strength and resilience 
were honored, and they were looked at as not only 
strong warriors, but wise sages who knew when 
it was better to take to the road than fight. Their 
multicultural backgrounds created quite a mixing 
pot of social and cultural norms, but it seemed to 
become an honor to learn as many of your peers’ 
traditions as possible and build on your honor to 
take up with them and their ways. 
Over the years, this made for a very open cul-
ture that accepts newcomers if they’re willing to 
act in a similar fashion. But the open culture is not 
the most amazing part of life as a trog in the tribes 
of the Congo. Dr. Wilcox Graham is a little-known 
scientist studying orks and trolls around the world. 
He focuses on analyzing the biology of the species 
and abolishing long-held myths about our kind. 
His work in the CTL has shown some serious errors 
in lifespan estimations for orks and trolls, with es-
timates for the latter breaking every report provid-
ed by earlier “scientists.” (The quotes are an ode to 
Doc Dub, because he’s connected every research 
program before him to some of the shadiest doc-
tors on the planet, many currently employed by 
our favorite genocidal health corp, Paladin Medi-
cal Group.) The good Dr. Wilcox reports “members 
of the ingentis and robustus sub-type” who arrived 
in the CTL in the early to mid-’30s, already in their 
teens, twenties, and a few in their thirties, all of 
whom are still alive.
Yes, that means orks and trolls that are be-
tween sixty-five and eighty-five years old—well 
beyond expectations for orks and up into the 
realm of venerable for trolls, but these trogs are 
still hale and hearty. Quite the surprise to many in 
the world who see orks at forty already suffering 
the effects of old age. I don’t have the science 
background to understand his work, but he attri-
butes a lot of it to their diet and where they live. 
The rich, pure mana of the Congo, along with the 
pure environment, nourishes them in a way that 
orks in urban, and even first-world rural, areas just 
don’t get. If I read his hypotheses correctly, he ac-
tually puts orks into a life expectancy category 
equivalent to humans, and trolls look to have the 
same speculative longevity as dwarves. Interest-
ing stuff. I know plenty of corps and other inter-
ested parties that would love to get their hands 
on this data. 
>	
Several groups have gone after Wilcox for his work, but he 
always has the Congo to fall back to. 
>	
Butch
>	
He’s also got a small group of warriors who are dedicated 
to protecting him in the Congo. He needs to hire private 
security elsewhere. He dips into our ranks frequently, since 
he can’t trust most of the megacorp security companies. 
>	
0rkCE0
Since I am mentioning Africa, I’ll point out one 
place orks aren’t welcome: Asamando. The wen-
digo HMHVV variation isn’t as simple as vampires 
or ghouls; it ended up somewhere in the middle, 
with the worst of both worlds and virtually zero 
resemblance to the ork that turned. They don’t 
even like letting in non-Infected orks for fear of in-
fection. Their primary airport has warnings every-
where, including some pretty gruesome images 
of wendigo that I’m not entirely sure came from a 
photographer who survived the encounter.
ORKS OF 
AMAZONIA 
POSTED BY: FAVELA CORONA
Bully! Thanks for the tap. You wanna know where 
to be in Amazonia if you got tusks or horns, I’m 
the guy to ask. And you did. So that makes you 
in the know.
>	
If he wants onto JackPoint, don’t do it. I like it here, and I’d 
get kicked after I killed him.
>	
/dev/grrl
When headed down to the land of the Amazon, 
you got two good options: Metrópole de Amazo-
nia and Manaus. They’re both very different, and I 
need to give you a bit more detail before you go 
wandering into trouble. In case you got a short at-
tention span, I’ll give you the bad news first.
Metrópole de Amazonia, a.k.a. the Rio de Ja-
neiro–Sao Paulo sprawl, is a two-faced slitch. On 
one hand, you have the favelas of Rio, where orks 
live like kings. Well, kings of the favela, but they still 
get treated with respect and a touch of fear. Then 
you have the rest of the sprawl. The further you get 
from the favelas, the more suspicious people get 
about orks. Due to the reputation they have in the 
favelas, they just aren’t really welcomed anywhere 
else. 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
38    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 40 =====
Most places aren’t openly hostile, and if you’ve 
got an accent that they can tell isn’t local, they 
might cut you some slack, so definitely don’t try to 
play like you’re a local. Walk like an outsider, talk 
like an outsider, and let them treat you like an out-
sider. Some spots, particularly those close to the 
favelas, are actively hostile to orks. You see, sus-
picion farther out, hostility closer in. Several local 
organizations violently try to keep the orks inside 
the favelas and feel any move outside them is an 
attempt to spread their influence. 
>	
And these organizations aren’t like Humanis. It’s not just 
humans trying to keep the orks down, it’s everybody who 
doesn’t want them expanding their power base.
>	
Picador
Interesting thing about trogs in Metrópole: 
They aren’t a united front. Orks don’t look at trolls 
in the big-brothers-in-the-struggle kind of way. 
Instead, they push them out and treat them like 
garbage just like a lot of the world does. In fact, a 
troll in the favelas is probably the property of one 
of the tougher orks. I’m not actually certain, but I 
think this is one of the only places around where 
the trolls and orks aren’t working side by side to 
fight the oppressive system they live in. Probably 
because the orks have found a way to join the op-
pressive system. 
The favelas of Metrópole can be a good place 
to hide out, as most of the time the authorities 
have no desire to venture into them. And while 
you might not find a lot of troll kinship there, you 
at least need to know where you can find things 
that are the right size, as a lot of the shacks in the 
favelas are really small. The Complexo de Alemâo 
is one of the favelas the authorities especially 
avoid, and in the shadow of the gondola line is 
a flophouse run by a troll known as Palheiro. She 
doesn’t have many beds—like I said, buildings in 
the area are small—but she is conscious enough of 
her size to keep four troll-sized beds in her rooms. 
She also can tell you where to find food in troll-
sized portions.
>	
There’s an eternal struggle in the favelas—if people there 
were any good at doing legitimate business, they would 
have moved on to work in a nicer part of the sprawl by 
now. If they’re still operating in a favela, how competent 
can they be? Or, to ask a related question, if they’re good 
at their job—good enough to make a decent income 
stream—what secondary motivation is keeping them in 
the favela?
Palheiro seems to be good at her job. You won’t 
get robbed in your sleep staying at her place, and the 
cleanliness is good enough to keep the bugs from being 
everywhere. So why hasn’t she moved on to some other 
neighborhood or establishment where she could make 
more, in nicer conditions? The two obvious answers 
in these cases is shadow work or drug trafficking, and 
in Palheiro’s case it seems to be the former. She keeps 
her eyes and ears out for talent staying at her place, and 
she can connect them to fixers with available work if her 
guests are sufficiently impressive.
>	
Marcos
>	
Are we really at the point where we ask why someone 
doesn’t abandon their home and neighbors for a little 
more money?
>	
Chainmaker
>	
Go to the favela, then see if you understand.
>	
Marcos
>	
Yeah, I’m from Lambeth. Shove it up your arse.
>	
Chainmaker
Now for the good news—and it’s not just 
good for orks, it’s good for all, as long as you’re 
not a nature-destroying monster. Manaus has a 
vibe where everyone is welcome, and the orks 
(since that’s what we’re focused on here) tend 
to be some of the nicest because all the ones 
with attitude and anger issues live happily and 
violently in the favelas of Rio. Well, not really. 
It’s more like they get kicked out or socially os-
tracized until they go find a better place to act 
like hoodlums. 
Thing about Manaus is that it’s truly an Awak-
ened city. There are very few parts of this metrop-
olis not arcanely grown, enchanted, or empow-
ered, so it’s important to understand and accept 
every aspect of the Awakening, including every 
metatype, metavariant, and sapient species out 
there. The mentality in this place is different than 
any other city I’ve visited. My tusks didn’t draw 
any more attention than the horse head on the 
centaurs, and definitely didn’t get me the ire they 
usually do.
>	
This guy is a piece of work. He is talking about the same 
Manaus, right? Major metro, extensive shadows because 
the corps there all play nicety-nice on the surface?
Is this guy a wageslave? I thought we only allowed 
pros here.
>	
Stone
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< LIVING AS A TROG IN...    39


===== PAGE 41 =====
>	
Favela Corona isn’t a wage slave, but he did grow up in 
some really unpleasant places, and a city like Manaus is 
going to seem idyllic to him.
As with all things here, take it with a grain of salt. 
>	
Pistons
Since Bully mentioned this was about all trogs 
I’ll mention that trolls have a great opportunity 
here. Because most of the construction is tech-
no-organic, it can be built, or adjusted, to suit all 
shapes and sizes. A lot of the public spaces are 
built big so everyone fits, but thanks to the ad-
justable nature of most of the construction, it has 
plenty of mid- and small-size structures where 
smaller races are more comfortable and trolls can 
be accommodated when necessary. 
HERE BE TRØLLS! 
(SCANDINAVIAN 
UNION)
POSTED BY: NORTHERN HEAVY
While those Black Forest blokes get all the atten-
tion, and for a bit they were the destination of 
choice for trolls, the Scandinavian Union is once 
again finding trolls, especially the native giant 
metavarient, moving in rather than out. There are a 
couple of spots to focus on—I’m going to cover the 
island of Sifjorden, and I hear another poster will 
be covering the deranged Vikings of Avaldsnes.
One thing to make clear right off—while there 
may be some good spots for orks and trolls in the 
Union, this is no thanks to the local governments. 
They’re still getting pushed around by some se-
rious anti-meta forces, the same ones that led 
to their departure. The difference now is a local 
“hero” named Peikko Skarsgaard. Peikko has made 
a place and put the word out for trolls to return, or 
come, to this sacred homeland to show that ha-
tred and tyranny do not control them. 
There is a catch. This move is not back into 
the metropolitan areas, but instead into a rath-
er remote locale on the south shore of Sifjorden 
in Norway. It’s a mountainous peninsula that 
lacks real roads, but Peikko operates a transport 
service with a beat-up Osprey out of Narvik, or 
trolls can come on foot from any of the other cit-
ies on the island. It’s not an easy journey, but it’s 
worth it to join a community that’s really good 
for trolls.
>	
The only bridge to the island comes through Finnsnes. The 
town had a decent vibe to it last year when Peikko started 
his efforts but a lot of anti-meta sentiment, especially anti-
troll, has been developing. At least four trolls have been 
killed, and a half dozen others attacked, when they tried to 
pass through Finnsnes over the past few months. 
>	
Traveler Jones
>	
Not to be the bearer of bad news, but those events cost 
twelve human lives, and a matching number sent to the 
local med centers. Tell the tale from both sides if you’re 
going to tell it. Finnsnes has been bringing in additional 
private security because of the number of trolls passing 
through and the acts of violence they’re committing on 
their way to their little troll paradise. 
>	
Sunshine
>	
Flame war halted! Both sides have pointed out potentially 
skewed stories. Go get some facts or evidence before 
making any more comments here on JackPoint.
>	
Bull 
Life isn’t easy there, but as the community 
grows it’s getting easier. More workers to take 
care of the land and help build homes and local 
structures. Mining the nearby hills is supplying 
some beautiful stone, and Peikko found several 
stonemasons early in his efforts who are mak-
ing structures that are not only sized and built for 
trolls, even giants, but also beautiful. 
That reminds me of a good point to bring up about 
Peikko Kotiin (that’s the name of their community). 
The life of giants anywhere in the world is tough. Basic 
trolls have it rough, but add another meter in height, 
and fitting in anywhere becomes almost impossible. 
The construction in PK is all built with that in mind. 
Your average troll actually gets to feel small, or at least 
not cramped, in this place. Smaller folks feel down-
right tiny, as nothing in PK is built to accommodate 
them. This may be a spiteful bit of vengeance or just 
an effort to truly make the trolls feel like it’s built with 
just them in mind, but it truly makes for a strange visit 
if you aren’t over 2.5 meters.
PK is working very hard at being a self-sufficient 
community, so the list of other jobs in town are nu-
merous, and many are remarkably boring. Because 
they are the only residents, there are plenty of roles 
you don’t normally find trolls in. Some of the more 
advanced fields, where trolls are usually shunned, 
were harder to fill, but that was why Peikko worked 
to draw trolls from the Black Forest. They’ve been 
getting that advanced skillset for a long time. 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
40    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 43 =====
a bit of tech skill gives them a one-two punch of 
assets. Luckily, most dwarfs have an aversion to 
being out on open water. Stubby legs and dense 
muscle are not a good combo if treading water be-
comes necessary. 
Since most chummers reading this aren’t going 
to be looking for work on the docks, or out on a 
boat, this information isn’t just valuable to the lo-
cals. It’s best to make your intentions crystal clear 
when you’re getting chummy with local orks in the 
SU. Even if you’re working a job to trash or grab 
a Maersk shipment, you’re better off telling them 
that’s what you’re there for instead of trying to but-
ter them up. Being too friendly makes them think 
you’re working an angle from another community. 
Best bet is to get a sense of the room, determine 
who’s working the dock and if anyone is operating 
as security, and work your way in with the dock-
workers to gain info. Most would much rather you 
dig for dirt honestly and give them a chance to 
warn their guys of trouble rather than to go in and 
risk having to hurt someone unnecessarily. 
>	
Watch out for Maersk Särskilda Skyddgrupp slags 
hanging out in the bars where you’d connect with the 
orks. They hang there to pick fights with tough sods and 
get info on ops going down against Maersk.
>	
Picador
All in all, though the Scand U isn’t the best over-
all place to be a trog, they have some great niches. 
Then again, this is exactly the kind of thing that 
we are trying to get away from, right? Orks and 
trolls in stereotypical positions. Peikko Kotiin of-
fers a wide range of opportunities for trolls, but it’s 
isolated and segregated, which is probably what a 
lot of the world wants. And while the orks are the 
ones fighting hard for their communities, it’s kind 
of making me think. This is basically keeping them 
focused on fighting amongst themselves, rather 
than trying to get out into the rest of Scandinavia. 
Well. Didn’t expect to come out of writing this 
with a suddenly different opinion, but I guess what 
those trolls told me is true. Writing the words gives 
them strength. It makes you think about them more 
than just saying them. It makes you own them. 
If I’m going to see things in a new way, I guess 
this is the best place to drop the data. Runners of 
the world, here’s a place that needs some hooders 
and anarchists. Hit the Scand U and help the trolls 
and orks get the place they deserve, not the place 
they’ve been put.
>	
Interesting turn of events. I’m glad he left that for the end 
and didn’t go back and rewrite the whole thing. Seeing 
someone change for the better is rare in this world, rarer 
in this line of work, and ultra-rare on this VPN. Good on 
you, Northern.
>	
Stone
>	
Northern’s dead. Sent this off, went to Scandinavia, got as 
far as Finnsnes, and found out just how rotten that town 
has become. RIP chummer. Your words are forever here. 
And in the Resonance Realms, if ‘cat is to be believed!
>	
Slamm-0!
AVALDSNES
POSTED BY: 2XL
I’m not going to tell you how to feel about these 
guys, because I’m not sure how I feel. I’ve heard 
all the arguments—that they’re living up to the 
worst stereotypes about orks and trolls and just 
providing fodder for people who want to believe 
we are nothing but savage brutes. That they are 
showing how orks and trolls don’t have to play by 
the rules of society, and they can follow their own 
rules and build something strong and functional. 
That they have built independence and strength 
for themselves. That they are in danger of mov-
ing from the status of easily ignored gnat to that 
of annoying mosquito, so they are in danger of 
being swatted by the powers that be.
As I said, I’m undecided. Part of me rolls my 
eyes whenever I hear about them. And part of me 
wants to run off and join them. I’ll try to present 
facts as clearly as I can so you all can decide what 
you will decide.
Just off the southwest coast of Norway sits the 
island of Karmøy, and toward the northern end of 
the island is the village of Avaldsnes, home of Har-
ald Fairhair, the first king of Norway. Get ready for 
a time warp if you go there—there is not an ARO in 
sight, and modern architecture is shunned. I’m not 
saying they don’t have the Matrix, but they like to 
keep it subtle. If you need the Matrix, you use your 
commlink screen, or perhaps an ARO visible only 
to you. A few buildings have sod roofs, and very 
few of them are taller than three stories. The most 
imposing building is a stone church with a large 
square tower. This is St. Olav’s Church, originally 
built as a Christian church in fourteenth century. It 
retains its Christian functions while accommodat-
ing a broader base of worship, most notably to the 
older gods of Norway.
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
42    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 44 =====
The thing about the village, though, is that it 
pales in comparison to the boats.
At most times, a fleet of longships is docked 
in the Karmsundet strait. They ape the appearance 
of ancient Viking watercraft but are considerably 
larger and rely on neither sails nor oars—they have 
a number of engines lining the sides to mimic the 
maneuverability oars can provide. They are con-
siderably faster than longships, of course, as a top 
speed of ten knots would never do for modern 
combat. And that’s what they’re used for.
The orks and trolls of Avaldsnes have decided to 
reclaim their Viking heritage, by which they mean 
raiding whoever the hell they feel like. Other vil-
lages in the Scandinavian Union are the easiest for 
them to reach, but sometimes they make their way 
to the British Isles or Allied German States just for 
variety, and to keep the government heat off them.
Which leads to one of the mysteries of this 
village—why is it tolerated? There is no mystery 
about it. The ships have been identified in well 
over a dozen raids, everyone knows where the 
ships dock, and none of the residents of Avaldsnes 
are exactly subtle about how the town’s economy 
works. So why doesn’t the government sweep in 
and take care of what is clearly nothing more than 
a band of pirates?
Because, according to many rumors, they are 
much more like privateers. The very first raids by 
the Avaldsnes Vikings were rather haphazard in 
their targeting. They mainly just shot up whatever 
buildings were near the shore and then ran ashore 
to see if there was anything valuable inside that 
hadn’t been destroyed by the barrage. It didn’t 
take long, though, before they became more tar-
geted, focusing on corporate warehouses and 
displaying a knack for hitting especially valuable 
goods, including new consumer electronics, de-
signer fashions, and legal, semi-legal, and ille-
gal pharmaceuticals. Millions of nuyen worth of 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< LIVING AS A TROG IN...    43


===== PAGE 45 =====
goods have been destroyed and/or stolen. Not at 
all coincidentally, the western Norway black mar-
ket has been thriving, the quality of buildings in 
Avaldsnes has been improving, and their fleet of 
ships is growing.
>	
Here’s one of the tricks about this place: The longships 
they have are not any known model, and there are no 
records on who is selling them to Avaldsnes. The town 
has no ship construction yards, so they aren’t building 
them themselves. Where are they coming from?
>	
Sounder
Officially, the Scandinavian Union government 
has labeled the town as lawless and has cut off 
all government support from the area. Given that 
they are active pirates whose base is well known, 
the pirates seem quite fortunate to have gotten 
off with that fate, and the German and UK govern-
ments, as well as representatives of other states 
in the Scandinavian Union, have filed multiple 
protests. If these protests continue to fall on deaf 
ears, expect the aggrieved parties to take action 
beyond paper filing.
The Vikings, of course, respond to these pro-
tests by saying “bring it on.” Their leader, who 
calls himself Hardrada after an old Viking king, 
has gone to great lengths to declare Aveldsnes 
as a “free city” (or free village, whatever) and say 
that his people will live as they will, according to 
an old code, and none will stop them. It’s a bold 
tactic, because while Hardrada and his crew have 
some nice ships and a reputation as fierce fighters, 
they’re sitting ducks. If anyone takes a mind to it 
and doesn’t care about pissing off the Scandina-
vian Union, they could take the whole village out. 
As far as I’m concerned, it currently is a question 
of “when,” not “if.”
In case you hadn’t guessed yet, the reason this 
is posted here is that the vast majority of these 
neo-Vikings are orks and trolls, so Aveldsnes is a 
very ork- and troll-friendly town. There are a num-
ber of theories as to why there are so many orks 
and trolls there, ranging from the innocuous and 
most likely true (Hardrada is an ork, and he brought 
in his friends first, and they brought in their friends, 
and so on, and trogs know trogs) to the offensive 
(orks and trolls like violence, so of course they’re 
attracted to this group!).
>	
Yes, saying orks and trolls are innately violent is offensive, 
but recognizing that marginalized groups often have so 
few options open to them that they more frequently turn 
to illegal activities is simply accurate.
>	
Sunshine
So the good news is, there is a safe and pros-
perous haven for orks and trolls off the western 
coast of Norway, where it never gets too hot but 
the ocean keeps it from getting too cold. The only 
bad news is that some corp or nation might decide 
to smash the whole thing to bits at any point.
YAKUT’A TOLD  
ME THIS PLACE 
WAS SO COLD
POSTED BY: NEILB4M3  
(A.K.A. SILK ROAD CYBER)
Title’s a little funny, but it just made sense for this 
place. Fraggin’ Siberia! This place has had a bad 
rap for millennia and the transition of power to a 
native spirit did not change the local flavor much. 
Which makes sense, because it’s a local spirit. 
Huh, never thought of it that way.
Anywho, we’re talking about orks and trolls and 
the places they live around the world. I was pop-
ping around chat spots and happened to run into 
Clockwork. Not the best of sources, but a hobgob-
lin’s an ork right? He mentions that the JackPoint 
crew is building a little data drop on orks and trolls. 
He’s all piss and vinegar about it, because he’s sure 
everyone who’s going to post will toss up some 
fluff or talk out their rectum, or worse, not be an 
ork or a troll. As if the views of others aren’t im-
portant. Well, I step out, swap a few bits of code, 
and swagger back in with the baddest Neil the Ork 
Barbarian persona out there. Nobody but an ork 
would rock this bad boy, right? I hit up Clockie, 
start talking smack in Or’zet, get all “My grandma 
can whoop your grandma” on him, and boom, he’s 
spewing garbage again. My angle has worked like 
a charm. He gets back on the trog-talk topic and 
whallah, I’m in and offering a report on Yakut. Why 
Yakut? Because it’s Yakut, and trolls and orks have 
no problem fitting right into the rest of the freak-
show. No offense intended. I just mean the place 
is crazy, but in a way that’s good for a group of 
people that need a place they can be understood 
and not feared. So, Clockie, when you read this, 
know that “NeilB4M3” is as smooth as they come. 
I’m a “drek-born smoothie,” as you called us, but 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
44    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 50 =====
Koloff: The way neuroses play out often is not. 
They respond to psychological need, not logic.
>	
That’s pretty theorizing and all, but maybe too detailed. 
People like power, and many who are good at getting it 
know how to divide people to serve their own ends. It can 
be as simple as that, without the psychoanalysis.
>	
Sounder
<There was a gap of another few weeks before 
a heavily encrypted file, with no signature, arrived 
in my inbox. The nature of the encryption algo-
rithm convinced me it was from Koloff. It is the last 
I have heard from him.>
A PARABLE
There once was a wolf who decided to be a 
shepherd. Chasing down sheep and avoiding 
shepherds and their dogs was wearying, and 
it would all be much easier if the wolf had its 
own supply of sheep. There were obstacles, of 
course, the main one being that sheep don’t like 
wolves, and any gathering and caring for them 
would not be easy, since the sheep would be at-
tempting to run away all the time, and their con-
stant anxiety might keep them from living and 
reproducing as needed. The wolves thought 
about what they could do make the sheep 
like them better, but then they came up with 
the answer: bears. Bears are bigger and stron-
ger than wolves. Sheep should be even more 
scared of the bears than the wolves. Of course, 
the wolves would nudge this tendency along. 
They would make posters depicting the bears 
as wild, slavering animals. They would make 
sure the sheep reacted only with fear as soon as 
they came in sight of the bears. They would not 
necessarily like the wolves more, but the sheep 
would know the wolves were not bears. And if 
the wolves would sometimes protect them from 
the bears, taking a few out who were judged to 
be the worst threats—well, the sheep could live 
with that.
>	
No one really wants to go to Yakutsk right now, and while 
the details are scant, and this is just one man’s subjective 
and concealed opinion, it’s a strong enough warning to 
really stay away if you’re a trog.
Unless, of course, you’re the kind of person who likes 
jumping into the maw of danger.
>	
Glitch
PARADISE FOR  
A PAIR OF DICE
POSTED BY: CARIB ORK
When you’re looking to make a haven for your 
people and the only thing you ever seem to have 
on your side is luck, that’s the game you play 
until it runs out. Back in 2074, Brig “Big Jimmy” 
James was an average, everyday craps dealer in 
Atlantic City. He had a cool nickname, sure, but it 
was earned because his name was confusing and 
he had a bit of a weight issue. What he lacked in 
spectacular looks and personality he made up for 
with a drive to see orks around the world come 
together as a race and stop marching to the beat 
of society’s drum. It was a lofty goal, and he had 
no real plan to achieve it outside preaching on 
Matrix forums, and that got him nothing but tar-
geted by Matrix trolls, and not the horned kind.
What Brig had on his side were luck and a solid 
understanding of several gambling games, craps 
being his favorite. Despite the fact that he wasn’t 
supposed to, Brig often dropped advice on gam-
blers at his tables, especially those who were big 
tippers, seemed down on their luck, or had tusks. 
He was reprimanded frequently and lost his place 
at Caesar’s and ended up covering a table at Pha-
raoh’s East, a terrible knock-off of the Luxor in Ve-
gas. It was here that his life changed forever.
As the legend goes, an elf in a deep-red fedora 
and black trench sat down at his table on a partic-
ularly stormy New Jersey night. His luck was poor, 
and Big Jimmy offered a few timely suggestions. 
The elf’s luck turned around, and when it came 
time to tip Big Jimmy, the elf wired him property 
deeds for a massive chunk of Cayman Brac. Big 
Jimmy took the deeds and used the limited re-
sources he had to buy a ticket to Grand Cayman. 
And the rest is history. 
I like the legend. Makes it more romantic for all 
the orks who have come to Ork Brac in order to 
find a more peaceful and calmer life. It’s a strug-
gle, don’t get me wrong, but it’s still island life. 
Thing is, it ain’t true, and not knowing the real sto-
ry and being in our line of work can be hazardous 
to your health.
This piece of the Cayman Islands belonged 
to Sir Archibald Wimship. He was a British aris-
tocrat with too much money and too many 
closely related ancestors, but a brilliant sci-
entific mind for a short time. In the mid-’60s, 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< LIVING AS A TROG IN...    49


===== PAGE 51 =====
he pushed the field of inter-species commu-
nication, successfully claiming Dunkelzahn’s 
bequest of forty million nuyen and a Cayman 
Island. Shortly after the success of his project, 
the technology was stolen from him by one of 
the megacorps, leaving him to grow extremely 
paranoid. After the loss of his lab and his work, 
he sunk the vast majority of his fortune into 
owning Cayman Brac, the farthest east of the 
Cayman Islands, which he chose from Dunkelz-
ahn’s hoard. His ownership didn’t give him a big 
empty island, something his paranoia required 
he start with, so he used his own vast resources 
and the nuyen left by the Big D to buy most of 
the residents off the island. He didn’t manage 
to evict everyone—there were several holdouts 
who valued the place they lived on the island 
more than any amount of money to get off the 
island, who chose not to sell. The ones who 
chose to stay were almost entirely made up of 
orks and trolls. They valued the peace and safe-
ty that had been their family’s birthright since 
Dunkelzahn first took over governance of the 
islands in the ’20s. They’d had a place to be 
safe for half a decade. He let them stay, partly 
out of a lack of options, he wasn’t the violent 
type, and partly because they seemed to calm 
his paranoia.
>	
So someone collected on the communication bequest, 
and the Draco Foundation didn’t say anything?
>	
Sunshine
>	
The DF stopped being overly public about the will after a 
few years. It just wasn’t worth the string of cons and BS 
artists who popped out of the woodwork every time the 
world was reminded of the Big D’s will. 
>	
Frosty
>	
That one just seems like a big one.
>	
Sunshine
>	
It is. But then it got quickly “stolen” by a megacorp. This 
screams the DF grabbing it based on the secret will of 
Dunkelzahn.
>	
Plan 9
>	
Secret will?
>	
Skinner
>	
NOOOO!!! Don’t get him started. Chat elsewhere you 
two. The conspiracy forum is <here>.
>	
Glitch
Thing about Wimship is, his paranoia should have 
developed earlier. Long before he ever created a mir-
acle of modern science and got into the crosshairs 
of the megas, his family had been targeted for the 
collection of interesting heirlooms they possessed. 
Most of the pieces just held collector value for sev-
eral centuries before magic came back to the world, 
but then suddenly had power. Prior to Archibald, the 
Wimship family had strong connections to many of 
Europe’s secret societies. Archibald wanted nothing 
to do with these, but he found himself targeted by 
them. As it happened, every attempt on his life took 
another member of his family. He became the sole 
inheritor of the entire Wimship fortune.
Sounds lucky, eh? It was. A luck provided by a 
pair of bone dice etched with runes. One of those 
many heirlooms that just happened to be Awak-
ened artifacts. Lots of money, plus lots of crazy, 
plus lots of mojo, and now his own private island, 
led Archibald to move his family’s vast collection 
to the island.
>	
This screams dragon manipulation. As if Dunkelzahn 
wanted this guy to get one of his islands and then bring 
all of his family’s artifacts to it.
>	
Kia
Now we get to 2074 again, when Big Jimmy is 
playing the stickman on a quiet Wednesday after-
noon. An old man, sophisticated British gent, sits 
down and starts shooting. It’s quiet, and Jimmy, the 
boxman (it’s like the dealer but craps doesn’t have 
cards), and the old fellow are shooting the breeze. 
Jimmy’s talking about his dreams of a safe place for 
orks, the boxman is constantly warning Jimmy to 
zip it and focus, and the old man just listens. 
The day rolls on and business is about to pick 
up when the old man poses Brig with a bet. Player 
on player, shoot to win with a bit of street craps. 
The boxman bails, not about to get fired for Brig, 
and the old man pulls out the bone dice. 
He handed that luck right off to Big Jimmy, lost 
his bet offering Big Jimmy an island where he might 
find a place for that dream, and then dies in an At-
lantic City hospital later that night from the com-
plications of cancer he had been battling for years. 
Now, Brig didn’t get all this without complica-
tions, and that’s where we of the shadowy skills 
come in. Archibald left Brig a warning about the 
artifacts and the trouble that would come, and he 
also tasked him with protecting them. For Brig, it 
was like some exciting fantasy trid come to life 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
50    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 52 =====
that has since turned into a serious drama with 
way more life-or-death decisions than he ever 
wanted to make in his life. 
The island, particularly the entire eastern tip of 
the island, is entirely for orks and trolls. It’s also 
where the artifacts are kept. Most of the trogs who 
live there are just there to enjoy life. A select few 
act as protectors of the artifacts hidden all around 
the island. Brig functions as a local leader and a 
coordinator for the guards while also locating suit-
able additional guards from the orks and trolls who 
come looking for a safe place. In order to move 
there, you have to be an ork or troll, and you have 
to have a “clean” record. That doesn’t mean spot-
less, but you can’t be currently wanted or under in-
vestigation, and you can’t be a convicted murderer 
or other violent offender. 
So it’s not the place for everyone.
Though Big Jimmy’s dream was for orks, he has 
happily let his efforts trickle over to their fellow 
outcasts, trolls. Because the ork population is so 
high, the trolls who come find themselves accept-
ed on a more limited level. Even the renaming of 
the island to Ork Brac kind of leaves them out in 
the cold. This is growing to be less of an issue as 
time goes on, as Big Jimmy has already come to 
see the value in a more diverse population. It didn’t 
take long for him to shift his ork-haven dream to a 
trog-haven dream.
>	
Wow! Way to paint that bullseye on these guys. A bunch 
of artifacts all on one island. 
>	
Kane
>	
I’m sure Carib Ork avoided the details to not give away the 
secrets of the island, but the artifacts aren’t just sitting out 
in the open. Archibald had many hidden, some even from 
Big Jimmy. The island’s not huge, but if you don’t know 
exactly where to look, you’re going to run into some of the 
its guardians before you find an artifact.
>	
Frosty 
>	
That’s if you can make it to the island in the first place. 
Thanks to Big Jimmy’s selection process, plenty of orks 
don’t make the cut for the island’s guardians, but they 
do get pushed over to Da Brag Rock, a pirate crew that 
operates around the Carib League but also functions like 
a coast guard for Ork Brac. 
>	
Kane
>	
A lot of the trolls who get to the island have found work as 
shore crew for Da Brag Rock. 
>	
Traveler Jones
>	
If only to state the obvious, there was a reason that 
Dunkelzahn purchased the Cayman Islands, and it wasn’t 
to shelter his massive fortune. There’s a mystic connection 
here, and Cayman Brac is at the crux of it all. The island 
has several alchera, and the manasphere there is quite 
powerful and heavily skewed toward orks. The number of 
adept births on the island is also above normal figures. 
>	
Frosty
PARLEZ-VOUS 
FRANCAIS?
POSTED BY: GRAND BON JOUR 
If your answer to the title question is “yes,” find 
your way to France. Seriously. There are few na-
tions in the world with the attitude of the French, 
and while that has soured the view of many oth-
er nations (and corporations), it isn’t something 
they care to change. They have their culture and 
their preferences, and if you don’t like it, c’est 
la vie. 
The French view of metahumanity has been 
open and accepting since the earliest days of the 
Awakening. As an ork from France, I have never 
faced the kind of racial hostility that my kind from 
other places around the world have faced. It isn’t 
in the day-to-day life of the French. Tusks don’t 
make you less French. Horns don’t make you less 
French. As a people we stand together and have 
for generations. I know we are mocked in other 
places as cowards who roll over when pushed, but 
that has never been the case. We value our lives. 
We acquiesce to the violent when wholesale de-
struction confronts us, so that we can survive and 
our fire-hearted can strike back to gain our free-
dom. We do this together, knowing that the most 
important fight is the one you can win.
As an ork from outside France you won’t face 
persecution for being an ork. You may be dis-
dained for being American, but not for being an 
ork. Move to France, join the culture, and while it 
takes time to overlook your funny American ac-
cent, your tusks will never slow you down. 
I should warn you, though, that body modifica-
tions will get you ostracized. I know in other plac-
es around the world being modified makes you 
more than metahuman, but in France, those parts 
you lose—well, those had French blood, they were 
part of the French in you. Cyberlimbs are for ampu-
tees. When it’s a matter of choice, you should take 
pride in your flesh. 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< LIVING AS A TROG IN...    51


===== PAGE 53 =====
For orks and trolls in France, life is hardly differ-
ent, culturally, than for humans, elves, and dwarfs. 
Jobs, politics, and positions of power are held by 
those best suited for the placement, not for those 
who best fit a certain physical profile. We aren’t 
held back by the irrational fears that others have 
placed on the new races. 
And this culture isn’t new. We’re generations 
into this magic-filled world, and while I understand 
I have come from a more accepting culture, I can-
not fathom the ignorance that is clung to within 
places that still revile orks and trolls—or elves and 
dwarfs, for that matter. Maybe that is why we are 
so hesitant with outsiders. We don’t want the in-
fection of their ignorance to corrupt us from with-
in. We appear haughty and brusque, but instead 
we are simply protective of our evolved culture 
and viewpoints. 
>	
Evolved culture? Didn’t they invent the guillotine?
>	
Pennywarden
>	
Ah! Ignorance at it’s finest.
>	
Thorn
>	
Seriously, Thorn. I’m not sure you get to jump on the 
French bandwagon just because you can impersonate 
them so well.
>	
Slamm-0!
>	
I’m simply pointing out that choosing a single era 
in history, and a device intended to instill fear in the 
masses—that worked quite well, I might add—is just a 
demonstration of the ignorance that breeds our inability 
to further ourselves.
The guillotine is that era’s equivalent of the Cold 
War atom bomb, the Great Ghost Dance at the turn of 
the century, and megacorporations today. They’re all 
constructed to keep the masses in line and unwilling to 
rise up. They are tools that have problems but are not 
necessarily emblematic of the entire history of a culture.
>	
Thorn
Let’s not be too rosy, though—France retains 
its share of problems for those who are not tradi-
tional humans. Our open minds have long drawn 
the attention of closed ones. We are targeted both 
by those forces within and international enemies 
that see orks and trolls as abominations and have 
nothing better to do than attack France in general 
and French trogs in particular in order to incite fear. 
They seem to hope that the inner ferocity that they 
see as the birthright of orks and trolls will come 
out and cause the French to join their terrible view. 
The most notable of these attackers are the Unity 
Foundation and Les Chasseurs de Monstres. 
The Unity Foundation is a very nice-sounding 
group, originally founded in the Confederation of 
American States, that has spread internationally be-
yond the CAS and its half-brother nation, the UCAS. 
They work hard to massage their message to sound 
more pro-human than anti-meta, but in the end it 
all comes out the same. They’re meta-haters, and 
they have a smaller, more violent sect among them 
that call themselves just Unity. These ones bomb 
cafés, attack government buildings, send letters 
laced with beta-anthrax to ork and troll policlubs, 
and perform all those dirty deeds that we expect 
from a bunch of racist terrorists. 
Everything I’ve seen on them points to some 
connections to Alamos 20K. Part of the connec-
tion is a cross-pollination of racist scum that affili-
ate with both, but Unity gets quite a bit of funding 
from A20K fronts, or at least the same fronts that 
back A20K also back Unity. In their native CAS, 
they also have several compounds that support 
the training of both A20K members and Unity 
members. 
>	
Really just looks like Unity is a 20k front. Better PR gets 
them in the door around the world, but they rise from the 
same cesspool. 
>	
Butch
Les Chasseurs de Monstres—literally “Mon-
ster Hunters”—is a home-grown group of French 
domestic terrorists that see orks and trolls as sto-
rybook monsters. Their name is spot-on for the 
actions they take, literally hunting orks and trolls 
with some seriously old-fashioned style and flair. 
While that might sound like I say it with some kind 
of admiration, it’s more of a statement to demon-
strate the level of their insanity. Reports on their 
activities are common, and descriptions of the 
assailants are always easy to match to the group. 
Renaissance era wide-brimmed hat with accesso-
ries to match their Vashon Island Steampunk-line 
fashion armor, weapons modified to match the 
steampunk look, and black or red scarves covering 
the lower half of their faces depending on which 
color goes best with their outfit. The look is so dis-
tinctive that Vashon Island has been coordinating 
with local authorities to track sales of their armor 
line, but nothing seems to have come from the ad-
ditional assistance. 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
52    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 54 =====
The look is also incredibly expensive. Lead-
ing theories point to the richest members of 
France’s aristocracy as prime suspects, but in 
public, there is no one who is actively outspo-
ken against orks or trolls. They keep their bigotry 
behind closed doors and behind the masks and 
costuming they wear to commit their atrocities. 
The comical appearance of Les Chasseurs be-
lies the seriousness of the problem. They have 
never lost a member, have been connected to 
the deaths of almost a score of people across 
France, and their “packs” are getting larger. Orig-
inally they were spotted in pairs or trios, but now 
they commonly hunt in groups of six or eight. 
Witnesses, because they always make a specta-
cle of their hunts, claim they appear to ritualis-
tically offer the kill to a specific member every 
time they hunt in large groups. As an ork or a 
troll in France, be wary of them, and run if you 
see them coming.
>	
Rich kids out using daddy’s nuyen to spread some hate 
and stand out. Getting augments wasn’t enough. They 
need to kill to show how counter-culture they are.
>	
Mr. Bonds
>	
Run. Hah. I’ll shred these fraggers. Never lost a member, 
huh. See how many they lose if they come after me.
>	
2XL
>	
They never go after “hard” targets. Remember, orks and 
trolls in France live normal lives. They weren’t raised on 
the streets in a kill-or-be-kill world like most other spots 
around the world. Being bigger only means it might 
take an extra hit or two to bring them down—it doesn’t 
make them a skilled fighter, unlike their attackers. As for 
the spoiled rich kids idea, I’ve seen “hunt” footage from 
bystanders, and they’re tactical in their precision. If they’re 
rich kids, they have a trainer with black-ops experience 
getting them in line. 
>	
Mihoshi Oni 
FRONT RANGE 
“FREE” ZONE
POSTED BY: KLUDGE
By now, everyone has heard about Denver. Oh 
wait, maybe not, because most of the corps are 
downplaying it, and the governments don’t want 
to announce how weak they really are. I’m sure 
someone around here is putting together some-
thing for us with more depth, but let me give a 
little surface view before I explain why this is an 
important place for trogs. 
>	
Why are we taking data from a guy who may or may not 
have put a price tag on a bunch of our heads?
>	
Kane
>	
Because no one’s collected or thoroughly proved it’s legit.
>	
Bull
>	
Then why was it up in the first place?
>	
Sunshine
>	
JIC. CYA.
>	
Bull
In February, Ghostwalker gave the sector gov-
ernments their walking papers. He also gave any-
one not willing to swear fealty to him the same 
orders: Get out or else. He gave them a month to 
pack up and get out. In March, while many citizens 
had fled the free city, the UCAS and CAS govern-
ments were still clinging to the crazy idea that he 
was kidding, or he’d come around and work with 
them. When the deadline hit and Ghostwalker said, 
“Times up!,” the UCAS and CAS switched over to 
trying to act tough, while the PCC and Sioux Na-
tion quietly shifted their important government 
operations to locations just outside the FRFZ, the 
advantages to owning sovereign national soil 
around the free city. After a dramatic demonstra-
tion of why not to frag with a dragon, the UCAS 
and CAS were pulling out their aerial resources 
filled with what few troops and government assets 
they could manage. 
Ghostwalker now claims control over all of 
the former Front Range Free Zone. All the sec-
tors, all the citizens, all the property, all his. Of 
course, there are forces working against this 
and righteously pissed about it. The involved 
governments aren’t happy, the megacorpora-
tions aren’t happy, and the displaced citizens 
aren’t happy. The first and the last are probably 
out of luck. Governments and individual citi-
zens don’t have much that Ghostwalker cares 
about, but the megacorporations are going to 
be hard to keep out. Even before the final oust-
ing, Ghostwalker was in talks with several of the 
megas to stick around and maintain business 
and infrastructure support in the city. I haven’t 
seen any logos or heard much more than ru-
mors, but I’m sure several of the big boys are 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< LIVING AS A TROG IN...    53


===== PAGE 55 =====
already back and working to prove their value 
to the white wyrm.
>	
It’s nice to see someone, or something in this case, sticking 
it to the corps. Gives me hope that one day we won’t feel 
their boot on our throats.
>	
Hard Exit
>	
You won’t. Eventually we all suffocate.
>	
Hannibelle
Now that you know, the next bit will make 
more sense. Over the past two months, orks and 
trolls from all over NorthAm have been working 
their way into Denver. Trogs are flocking to a place 
controlled by something as “monstrous” as them 
in hopes that Ghostwalker will create a more en-
lightened society in his fiefdom. The overall cul-
tural setup of this new nation-state isn’t fully de-
veloped, or even partially. It’s still in flux, but if 
enough trogs arrive to shift the balance of num-
bers, they can certainly shift the social order in the 
process. Based on the numbers I’ve seen, this is 
huge and could definitely shift the numbers in fa-
vor of orks, who are far more supportive of trolls 
than anyone else. 
>	
Really? The trogs are only headed there because they 
know Ghostwalker is a big proponent of “he who is the 
biggest badass gets the power” and they’re looking to 
play off this attitude to their advantage.
>	
Stone
>	
Ghostwalker is the biggest badass. He’s not going to 
let his kingdom fall to fighting and squabbling, or risk 
one of those powers rising to match his. Not that an 
ork or a troll could ever go mano-a-mano with GW, but 
you get my point.
>	
Hard Exit  
>	
I’m sure there is a certain elf around town who might 
disagree on who is the biggest badass. Not necessarily 
agreeing, just saying. 
>	
Frosty
There are a few current issues to consider if 
you think this move might be for you, and I’m 
not entirely sure that others who have jumped 
on the bandwagon have considered all these 
potential issues. I’ll admit that it is currently a 
huge movement in North America. The number 
of smuggling runs pulling trogs out of Seattle’s 
slums has skyrocketed over the past month. It 
took a little bit of time for word of mouth to 
spread, but once it did, every trog in town was 
hitting up the Cascade Orks and other smug-
glers to get them down to Denver. While many 
are calling this a fad, the fact that right now it’s 
a one-way trip is giving it a solid foundation and 
preventing anyone who has already made the 
move from backing out. The one-way trip is defi-
nitely a hiccup in anyone’s relocation plans, but 
it gets worse. As it stands, Ghostwalker is letting 
new citizens, willing to swear fealty to him, into 
the city with a very open-door policy. Part of this 
is to fill the voids left by those who fled, and the 
other is to fill his belly with fools. Sadly, we know 
how many fools exist in the shadows, and how 
many will try to push their luck for a chance at 
a buck. 
Everyone who comes to Denver has to swear 
fealty to Ghostwalker before the dragon himself or 
one of his trusted advisors. All of his advisors are 
spellcasters with the ability to determine wheth-
er someone is being honest, and those who ar-
en’t being honest are getting rounded up by the 
ZDF. They don’t get taken right away—that would 
scare others—instead they are let in, put on a list, 
and then grabbed in the middle of the night to be 
penned up for later dining by Ghostwalker. For 
those inside, it’s not a state secret; they just keep 
it from newcomers. If you’re headed in under false 
pretenses, know that they’ll know you aren’t loy-
al, and don’t be wherever you claim to be staying 
when they come for you. If you’re honestly ready 
to live in Ghostwalker’s realm and follow his laws, 
you’re golden and have plenty of opportunities 
left open by those who took off. 
>	
I’ve gotten a few messages from folks in Denver, and 
they’re saying the Resistance is alive and well, so you’ll 
have places to hide out once you’re inside. The ZDF is 
expanding its numbers and its efforts, but it’s nowhere 
near enough to cover all of the FRFZ. There are plenty of 
folks who’ll help you hide, and plenty of places to hide 
with all the government facilities and private citizens who 
thought it was better to start again elsewhere than to live 
under a dragon’s reign.
>	
Kia
>	
I want to point out that all of those citizens who owned 
property and chose to flee sold their properties to 
Ghostwalker for a fair price. He didn’t just kick them out 
and claim the land. He spent a lot of capital to give them a 
fair value. 
>	
Mr. Bonds
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
54    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 56 =====
>	
The number of property brokers who thought they would 
make mad nuyen by getting people to sell to them cheap 
before Ghostwalker started buying their property learned 
a harsh lesson about cheating people who a dragon is 
planning to treat fairly. He ended up getting a lot of free 
property from those guys after he ate them.
>	
Ma’Fan
>	
How does he get away with eating all these people? It’s 
murder!
>	
Hard Rock 
With the opposition arrayed against him and 
the inherent instability of new regimes, there is a 
big question on everyone’s mind as to how long 
this place will last in its current incarnation. Drag-
ons are powerful beings, but megacorporations 
aren’t exactly chopped liver. If they lose money 
or, god forbid, power from this move, they are 
going to come after the dragon, and ghost help 
him if they work together. I’m sure Lofwyr and 
Saeder-Krupp will be on the nay side of a vote 
to take Ghostwalker down in a permanent fash-
ion, but Aztechnology has already proven they’ll 
drop a dragon, and others are not pleased at the 
mess caused by Celedyr in Boston. It’s a good bet 
that if the Corporate Court gets dragged into an 
issue here, it won’t play out well for Ghostwalker. 
Though I’m sure that is on his radar—dragons, after 
all, excel at planning. 
For the orks and trolls who are working hard 
to set up a place where they are the majority and 
they can set positive policies, their efforts may be 
futile. If the dragon loses power, the power-hun-
gry are going to come in like vultures and tear the 
carcass of the city to pieces. The orks and trolls 
who move here may become the inheritors of a 
kingdom of ash or get shoved right back down 
when other metas flood back in. 
On the positive side here in Denver, the trogs 
that have already come to town are finding one 
group to be very welcoming: the Zone Defense 
Force. The ZDF is bulking up its numbers, and in 
the process, many of those bulked-up numbers 
are bulked-up metas. Orks are getting positions in 
the ZDF at an astounding rate. One could look at it 
as a strategic move to build up the force or as sim-
ply a utilization of the available workforce. Either 
way, it’s a place to work if you’re an ork headed 
into Denver for a new life.  
>	
There are two groups not happy about all the orks joining 
the ZDF. First, is all the rest of the ZDF, who feel that it’s 
becoming the Ork Defense Force and feel pushed aside 
because they aren’t as big and tough. A lot of ZDF regular 
Joes are tapping into aspects of their contracts that offer 
cyber and bio upgrades paid for with years of contracted 
service (with a reduction in pay, of course). Others are 
intentionally sending the ork grunts into dangerous 
situations without proper support. Some come out, but 
even orks aren’t supernaturally tough. 
>	
Rigger X
>	
I’ve seen some funny images from the ZDF, like orks in 
their new body armor. They don’t have enough ork-sized 
gear and haven’t had the time, resources, or manpower to 
modify the gear, so they wear them as is. It leaves some 
odd gaps, but the humor comes from either the “ork in a 
crop top” look, or the “fat man in a little suit” style.
>	
Stone
>	
I’m sure they don’t respond well to the laughter. I know I 
don’t.
>	
Bull
Some would have expected trolls to be part of 
that bulk up, but Ghostwalker seems to have differ-
ent plans for them. The vast majority of trolls who 
stuck around or have arrived since Ghostwalker 
took over have all been offered work with what 
most thought was a pet project of the dragon. The 
trolls, well-known for being a literate race, are be-
ing brought on by Ghostwalker to act as wander-
ing sages. Instead of bashing heads, they’re filling 
heads with the value of words and strength that 
can be found in genuine literacy. It’s like a renais-
sance of reading led by the most unlikely of sourc-
es. It hasn’t yet but will certainly go a long way in 
changing the local view of trolls as big and dumb. 
I’m not sure if this is part of Ghostwalker’s plan, 
but it is definitely working in favor of those who’ve 
been spreading the word to head to Denver. 
>	
Who’s doing that, by the way?
>	
Slamm-0!
>	
Funny thing is—I don’t know. Not really funny. Kind of 
disturbing actually. I usually have a good connection 
with ork movements. This one’s not coming through the 
normal channels.
>	
Bull
The troll sages and ork ZDF enhancements 
aren’t growing unopposed in the city. As one 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< LIVING AS A TROG IN...    55


===== PAGE 57 =====
would expect, the anarchist element that rallied 
behind Harlequin against Ghostwalker didn’t 
leave. The wild elf hasn’t been seen much since 
Ghostwalker took over but the diamond-eyed 
forces loyal to him have been sewing the seeds 
of chaos all over town. They’ve been particularly 
keen on hitting the new orks in the ZDF and the 
trolls that are just trying to spread wisdom in the 
zone. Their efforts aren’t always very precise, 
and plenty of other orks and trolls get caught in 
the crossfire. Be wary.
>	
Why’s our favorite chortling chucklehead not pushing 
harder while Ghostwalker is trying to stem the chaos?
>	
Slamm-0!
>	
Because he already got quite a victory out of this, and he’s 
silently gloating.
>	
Frosty
>	
Any chance Ghostwalker is intentionally trying to build his 
force of orks and trolls in order to combat the collection of 
elves and humans that Harlequin seems to attract?
>	
Sounder
>	
While this isn’t some fantasy trid with an ancient 
animosity between elves and orks, the races have 
never really gotten along because of their innately 
opposite variations from the norm. Elves are pretty 
and agile; orks are ugly and tough. It’s possible the two 
masterminds are playing on that internal animosity and 
turning it external. 
>	
Snopes
MUMBAI
Mumbai provides some interesting opportunities 
to explore Sixth World ethics. Yeah, some of your 
eyes will glaze over at that word, but look, that’s 
what a lot of this whole post deals with, so suck 
it up and let’s talk about how you should behave 
around people.
There are some definite pluses to being a trog 
in the Indian Union, especially the Hindu-domi-
nated areas. Hindus have long been accustomed 
to ideas about the connections between all souls 
and how the souls of beings you care about may 
appear in unusual shapes, so when gobliniza-
tion occurs, they generally just saw it as another 
set of vessels that can hold souls and they went 
on with their lives. This is not to say it is some 
racism-free paradise—such a place does not ex-
ist—but racism is often isolated, rather than the 
everyday occurrence it is in other parts of the 
world.
And yet. Mumbai is dominated by two business 
sectors: entertainment and organized crime. Both 
of those sectors offer plenty of job opportunities 
for trogs—and both of them are all too willing to 
throw trogs into stereotypical roles.
Now, I know well enough that some of you 
react to this with a great big “So?” The job pays 
money. The money spends. So what if both mob 
bosses and studio producers, when they’re hir-
ing, can’t envision anything for orks or trolls to do 
besides hit something? So what if a) They want 
every ork or troll to talk “street,” and b) Their ver-
sion of “street” sounds nothing like what you have 
heard on actual streets? They’re not discriminating 
against orks or trolls for these roles—in fact, they’re 
deliberately seeking them out for the jobs! Is it re-
ally worth worrying about?
As I said, this is about ethics. How harmful are 
stereotypes, and how much damage do you do 
proliferating them?
>	
I’ll tell you this—if those were the most worrisome 
questions on my mind each night when I went to bed, I’d 
sleep a whole lot easier than I do. 
>	
Hard Exit
On the whole, you can live a good life in Mum-
bai. Yeah, the gangland fights can get a little 
bruising, but who signs up with the mob without 
expecting a little danger? Sometimes the rain is 
acidic, sometimes the air is toxic, but that hits ev-
eryone, not just trogs, so at least you’re on equal 
footing. So maybe you take the money and don’t 
worry about the rest.
But when you travel the world and see people 
telling every troll they see to punch through a wall 
like the bodyguard in that one Water Margin epi-
sode, be sure to tell yourself that your actions af-
fect only yourself.
>	
What a bunch of moralizing bullshit. What kind of a world 
do you think you live in? One where individuals can shape 
or reverse huge social trends? One where we have the 
luxury to think about whether we reinforce stereotypes, 
rather than worrying how to avoid starving/freezing/
baking to death? That’s not the world we have. We’ve 
gotta survive, and if you somehow find a job that doesn’t 
entirely suck, latch on to it and count your blessings.
>	
Haze
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
56    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 58 =====
>	
Self-fulfilling prophecies will be our doom.
>	
Arete
Again, while Mumbai might be relatively low on 
the prejudice scale, it’s not some sort of paradise. 
It’s got crime, it’s got poverty, it’s got all the things 
you expect a major sprawl to have. Doing what 
we do, we’re often going to find ourselves among 
the poor and downtrodden, and a large number 
of them are in the slum of Dharavi. It has living 
conditions similar to barrens areas, but a density 
of buildings more in line with something like Kow-
loon’s Walled City or the favelas of Metropole. 
One distinguishing facet of this area is that it is 
very entrepreneurial. Recycling has long been a 
part of people’s lives here, in small operations with 
little knowledge or interest in health standards, 
and all manner of spam originates from people 
typing and calling away as they line long, narrow 
tables. You can find some people cobbling togeth-
er makeshift tech here, as well as people willing to 
put their bodies on the line to make some cash. In 
short, it’s a good place to hide out and recruit help. 
And like most of the rest of the city, you won’t feel 
out of place here if you’re a trog.
BOSTON’S WALL
POSTED BY: THE GREEN MONSTER
Bull told me that JackPoint was going to put up a 
little “What’s Up with Trogs?” piece, and I thought 
it would be a great chance to talk about some-
thing that I find odd, but a lot of my fellow officers 
don’t. Posting any of this on the PubGrid would 
get me tossed, or worse, but getting it out into a 
shadow VPN might do some good, and it’ll make 
me feel a little better that I at least tried to tell 
someone.
To clear up a point above, I’m Sgt. Gregor Har-
burg, a peace officer employed by Minutemen Se-
curity assigned to the NEMAQZ (Northeast Metrop-
lex Area Quarantine Zone), a.k.a. the Boston QZ. I’m 
a NeoNET citizen until they finalize the corp’s death 
and I find out where Minutemen is getting sold off 
to, and I’ve been working on The Wall, as we call it, 
since day one. I know Bull from a run-in we had back 
in the ’50s when I was struggling to make it as a gai-
jin oni at Fuchi in Boston. A moral dilemma later, and 
I discovered the world worked better in shades of 
grey. Bull has been reaching out to me and directing 
trusted associates my way ever since. 
We’ve chatted socially more for the past few 
years because I’ve been adamant about not help-
ing anyone get into the Boston QZ, and no one in 
their right mind is helping anyone get out. Sad to 
say, but we on the wall have known it was more 
than encephalitis since about three months in, but 
who in the hell was going to believe us about a 
nanite-viral infection that overwrites your brain? 
Now, thanks to the Monads, some of the truth is 
trickling out, but back then we were still cheerfully 
enjoying our newer, safer, content-controlled Ma-
trix. They weren’t going to tell us about a techno-
virus. Especially those of us at Minuteman, what 
with NeoNET’s role at the center of the trouble. 
With our increasingly social relationship, Bull 
has heard all of this before, hence his acceptance 
of my tell-all exposé. Thanks for learning where 
I’m coming from; now to talk about where we 
seem to be going.
As all of you well know, the Boston lockdown is 
still in effect. The Corp Court is still assigning par-
ties to run the show, but PR is pretty much down 
to one guy saying, “We’re assessing options and 
looking for the best way to properly accommo-
date and compensate those effected by NeoN-
ET’s irresponsible actions,” with emphasis on the 
NeoNET. National coordination is no longer even 
part of the show, as the UCAS is going to be one 
of the biggest winners from NeoNET’s turn on the 
sacrificial altar; and the only group they really still 
have around is NEMALC, the Logistics division, 
and their main focus is security and keeping ev-
erything contained. 
>	
Though this guy doesn’t play a hand in it, plenty of 
others help people get in. It’s mostly overlooked, though, 
because the focus is on keeping things in, not out. 
>	
Winterhawk
Enough background. NEMALC is supposed to 
be using a coalition of forces from several secu-
rity corps. Most heavily represented these days 
is Minuteman, as NeoNET’s trashed reputation is 
costing them contracts around the world so they 
have the spare personnel, but Lone Star, Knight 
Errant (and Ares’ other, less professional, outfits), 
Petrovski, Najimi, Centurion, and Desert Storm all 
provide boots on the ground as well. The thing 
is, all the boots that have been supplied of late 
have been larger than average. I don’t believe in 
coincidence, so for some reason, good or ill, the 
powers above are bulking up the forces at the 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< LIVING AS A TROG IN...    57


===== PAGE 59 =====
wall with huge numbers of orks and trolls, while 
those getting shipped off wall duty tend to be 
round-eared. I’m not sure if it’s part of a plan to 
put a lot of muscle on the walls and in the block-
ade because they’re afraid of a potential breakout 
attempt, if I’m just seeing these things because 
I’m a troll, or if it’s something darker, but I’ve got 
some speculation.
The idea of more muscle on the wall would 
sound like it makes sense to someone who is un-
familiar with the work here. We rarely go hand-to-
hand with anything that comes past the wall. In 
fact, we’re under strict orders to make no physical 
contact with anything we even suspect came from 
inside the QZ. We’re long guns during and hazmat 
suits after, for every event. Anyone who makes 
contact without the suit is immediately quaran-
tined. For a while that meant a one-way trip, of-
ten back over the wall, but more and more slots 
are being cleared for work after contact incidents. 
Adding more punching power doesn’t fit well with 
previous operational standards, meaning we are 
about to get a change in orders or, again, there’s 
something else going on. 
Now, I totally understand that just because I 
saw a few more trolls around doesn’t mean there’s 
a broader pattern. I worried about this early on—I 
thought maybe I was just seeing something that 
wasn’t there, so I went to the hard data. Pulled up 
the transfer logs, did some data sorting, and then 
made myself a nice, simple series of pie charts. 
Boring, but then again, so is most of my work. 
The numbers showed a massive shift in metatype 
distribution in the security force. We went from a 
pretty standard breakdown (human: 52 percent; 
ork: 27 percent; dwarf: 11 percent; elf: 6 percent; 
troll: 3 percent; other: 1 percent) to our current fig-
ures (human: 12 percent; ork: 64 percent; dwarf: 3 
percent; elf: 1 percent; troll: 19 percent; other: 1 
percent) all in the span of six months. I looked at 
straight number totals as well, and while the over-
all force total went down by seven percent, that is 
by no means a way to explain the the drastic shift. 
It’s intentional. 
As for the something darker option, I’m all for 
this one. Not because I want something more ex-
citing in my daily life and a mystery to solve, but 
because I live in the real world and have, despite 
my slight increase in rank, been witness to the 
atrocities this world likes to pile on orks and trolls. I 
have a few ideas to toss out here. Some may sound 
crazy, but remember, they’re coming from a guy 
who works as security on the walled-in quarantine 
zone full of people who have been overwritten by 
a technovirus transmitted by nanites.
First up, something mundane. I’ve heard noth-
ing but maybe, just maybe, the powers that be have 
gotten word from forces on the inside that there is 
a major breakout attempt imminent. Knowing that 
the attempt is going to get past the drone security 
at the wall, they want the biggest (physically, not 
numbers) force available there to stop escapes. 
It’s a lose-lose for us, as this means they expect 
the force to make contact. If it’s a breakout in force 
they’re going to assume infection, but maybe this 
way we can limit the losses by filling the gap with 
the toughest sons of slitches around.  
Part two is close to the first but a little less end 
of the world and a little more silver lining. It’s pos-
sible the walls are coming down, and once the wall 
is gone, they want an intimidating force on the 
other side of the fences giving anyone with an in-
kling of sneaking out without passing a clearance 
check second thoughts. Since they haven’t even 
started allowing clearance checks with the walls 
up—and I’d expect that step to come first—I don’t 
have a lot of hope for this one. 
In the darker part of this rabbit hole, I’ll offer up 
the racist conspiracy. Elements of various influential 
groups that have a distinctly anti-metahuman agen-
da are influencing the Corporate Court, in particular 
the ones handling the NEMAQZ, and moving orks 
and trolls here in order to place them in a hazard-
ous situation. A situation that they would likely be 
attempting to escalate, either through support for 
escape attempts or further limitations on the safety 
protocols and procedures we follow when an in-
cident occurs. These groups could include any of 
the well-known anti-meta fronts like the Humanis 
Policlub or Unity Foundation, from a major terror 
organization like Alamos 20,000, or from one of 
the whispered secret societies such as the Human 
Nation. The last option being the one I see with the 
kind of insider pull to make this happen. 
Last but not least is a piece I’ve been holding 
back for as long as I could. I don’t want to sound 
nuts, but I think a large number of my fellow of-
ficers are already infected. I’m not sure if it hap-
pened during an incident or if an external source 
is the cause, but I’ve had plenty of my friends 
show some initial signs and then suddenly start 
acting strange right before they get transferred, 
either to another sector of the quarantine or off-
site completely. Moving so many orks and trolls 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
58    LIVING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 60 =====
over could be an effort by the Monads to bulk up 
their forces before the Corporate Court decides 
what to do with them. It’s way out there, I know, 
but I’ve seen crazier, and things around here are 
just getting weird. 
Thanks for the outlet, Bull. If you’re a trog and 
you’ve got family or friends in security, keep an 
eye on them if they get shipped off to Boston. 
>	
He may be onto something. We know some of them 
got out. The Red Sox and Tigers both left the city after 
the initial incident, and others are bound to have gotten 
out before they locked the place down. Coming back to 
weaken the defenses, especially now that their efforts are 
starting to slip, would be a solid tactic. If it hasn’t already 
happened, I’d keep an ear to the ground for jobs against 
the wall security that don’t seem on the up and up. 
>	
Butch
>	
It’s the Monads. The corps aren’t taking them seriously, 
and they are preparing for war. They’re going to first 
convert the guards on the wall and then tear it down from 
the outside to let loose the crazies from inside the QZ. 
>	
Plan 9
>	
And on that pleasant note, we wrap. 
>	
Bull
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< LIVING AS A TROG IN...    59


===== PAGE 62 =====
turned. He took the time to look for any trouble coming from 
the crowd and checked their faces to see if he might be mov-
ing into a fist, but most of those nearby were still bobbing to 
the beat and talking to those nearby.
The end of his turn brought him face-to-sternum with a 
Troggy and the Thrashers t-shirt that had seen better days. He 
looked up to find the troll inside the shirt grimly glaring down 
at him, body leaning forward and looking over the more 
diminutive metahuman.
“We don’t like your kind here!” the troll yelled over the 
beat. “You can scram, or I can toss you out.” He made a tight 
fist that was the size of Roth’s head and extended thumb to 
gesture for the door.
To Roth, it was funny. The place was full of his kind. He was 
an ork. Though his tusks had been resculpted by concerned 
human parents and his nose had been broken and reshaped 
so many times it lacked the distinctly porcine appearance of 
most of his brethren, he still had the height—a solid 2.1 meters 
of it—and the build, though both his arms were no longer the 
ones he was born with. The encounter could very well have 
been a test by Blue, but Roth was going to deal with it the 
same way he dealt with every threat initially.
“Sorry, big brother. I know I ain’t pretty, but I’m still an ork,” 
Roth yelled back. He grinned to show the two broad lower 
canines that had been trimmed to look more human. 
“Nice, poser. Couldn’t handle the full tusks. Afraid you 
might sound funny. Get goin’ before I get you goin’!” The troll 
poked Roth in the chest with a massive finger.
Roth saw Aiken finally turning his attention from Suzie to 
the events occurring right next to him. Scratch was behind 
the wall of flesh that was Aiken and stepped over a little to 
see why they had stopped moving. The moment he saw the 
troll poke Roth, he slipped around Aiken and flanked the troll. 
Roth saw his two running mates slide into position but 
gave them a calm wave-off that looked to everyone else like 
he was just scratching his bald head. 
“Look, chummer, this can go one of two ways. First, you 
realize I’m a real ork and let me get to my business. Or,”—Roth 
paused and looked around at the slowly growing crowd—
“you can make a move to toss me out. I’m not going, just so 
you know, and the results of the attempt are going to wreak 
havoc on your rep.” Roth delivered the options in his best 
deadpan. He didn’t want to taunt the troll, but he also didn’t 
want to make it seem like he was being flippant. This was a 
serious decision.
“You’ve got a pair of troll balls on you, smoothie,” the troll 
said, confirming which option he was going with.
“What’s your name, my bulky friend?” Roth asked.
“Folks call me Breaker,” the troll responded, a wide grin 
spreading on his face as if he had just delivered the best line ever.
>> TRUE BLUE TROG <<    61
BY SCOTT SCHLETZ


===== PAGE 63 =====
“Aiken, make the call,” Roth said to his teammate. Aiken 
knew what he meant.
“Oh, I see. Callin’ in your pals for help.”
“Oh, no. He’s calling T-Rex so I can resume my business 
after this without interruption. You were going to remove me, 
I believe.” Roth focused on the troll, knowing Aiken would do 
as asked and Scratch would hold off as long as it stayed a 
clean fight.
“Cocky little breeder, aren’t you!” The troll poked Roth 
with his massive finger. 
Contact had been made—this was no longer a fight he 
started. Before the troll could retract his hand, Roth grabbed 
the bulky finger and bent it to an uncomfortable point. The 
troll’s elbow bent, and Roth moved forward, pushing until he 
had twisted the troll’s arm up behind his back. The troll tried to 
spin, but Roth latched his other hand up under the troll’s arm-
pit. He could feel the bulky armored vest beneath the troll’s 
coat as he squeezed and drove his fingers into the nerve clus-
ter in the pit. 
The troll howled in pain and anger. Roth kicked out his 
knee, dropping him to a better height. He squeezed and 
wrenched in conjunction. The troll’s other arm came back, 
flailing after Roth. It was exactly what he wanted. 
Roth pushed forward hard and sent the troll’s head rocket-
ing toward the floor. One arm locked behind his back and the 
other flailed, leaving nothing to blunt the force of the impact. 
Roth let go of both points, stepped over the troll, and re-
turned to where he was when the whole thing started. 
The troll was slow to rise. Roth stood stock still, staring at 
the rising behemoth. 
“We need to be done, friend,” Roth said calmly, “I’m an 
ork. My name is Roth. I’d like to buy you a drink.”
Despite a face thoroughly furrowed in anger, the troll ac-
cepted the olive branch. It cost Roth sixty nuyen for a single 
troll-sized drink, but it was worth it to show Suzie Blue that 
while capable of solving problems with his fists, he preferred 
words.
It was an exceptional negotiation point for the job to 
come.
“Say No to Prop Fo-Fo!” the crowd called in unison. The run-
ners mixed in with the crowd moved their mouths to fit in but 
focused on the job at hand rather than being caught up in the 
chanting. It was a powerful scene, personal to every one of 
them, but they had a job to do and that job was looking more 
and more difficult by the moment.
“I’ve got another one,” Magpie called over the comm. 
“Black leather, rather ironic shirt.”
Roth scanned the crowd. Black leather was fairly common, 
but it narrowed the search. He chuckled when he spotted 
what Magpie was referring to, and Scratch voiced the joke. 
“Humanis dirtbag wearing a troll gang logo on his chest. Frag-
ging drek for brains.” he said, referring to the elf with a spike 
in his head and X’s for eyes that was the symbol of the Spikes.
“That brings our total to eight,” Roth said, referring to their 
count of real threats in the crowd they were facing. 
The team was spread across ten meters of the front line of 
the protest. Gathered around them were hundreds of mem-
bers of MoM, Mothers of Metahumans. Arrayed opposite 
them were hundreds of humans, and a few token elves and 
dwarfs, standing in support of Humanis. The battle lines were 
drawn. These two opposing forces of nature gathered to shout 
their vitriol against the latest of the city’s hate-fueled legisla-
tions that reduced orks and trolls to second-class citizens. Or 
worse. More and more, the influence of the Japanacorps was 
sinking into Chicago. The gripevine had already been mutter-
ing about a Chicago version of Yomi Island, where the orks 
and trolls would all be “hired” to work. 
All of it was fueling the anti-metahuman fires. And where 
there was hatred for metahumans, you would find the Hu-
manis Policlub mentioning the lack of human rights, the 
skewed statistics on metahuman crime rates, and their spe-
cial form of bigotry-fueled hate speech that snatched the ears 
and hearts of many red-blooded humans, without them ever 
realizing the hate they were supporting. 
“What’s the play, Roth?” Scratch asked.
“Push to the front, put on the charm, get punched and 
kicked and spit on,” Roth said glibly. “If something lethal pops 
out, bring it down quietly. We’re hired to keep this place safe 
and show that we aren’t the violence problem. We can’t let 
any footage get out that might be spun the wrong way.”
“Tell me again why we’re being paid to get the drek beat 
out of us,” Scratch asked.
“Because we can take it. We’re pros. We know how to pro-
tect ourselves, and we know the bigger picture,” Roth said 
with bravado.
“In position,” Magpie piped in. Roth could see her further 
down the line, her massive black-feather cloak made her look 
like a creature from myth and legend. She was there to draw 
attention. The three Humanis plants moving towards her 
demonstrated the plan was working.
“Remember, if it looks like violence is coming, get in the 
way,” Roth reminded.
“Yeah, yeah, yeah, we get it Roth,” Aiken said over the 
comms, and the continued out loud, “We’re not the monsters 
of your legends. We’re another face of the same die of meta-
humanity.”
“Frag you, trog, you’re gonna die alright,” a voice called 
from the crowd. It was followed by calls of “monster,” “baby 
eater,” “bridge-dweller,” and, of course, “trog” in a myriad 
of voices. 
The responses were no less unpleasant. Anger always be-
gets more anger, but it was still just words. They were here 
for when words turned to action, though not in the way most 
would expect for a team of ork and troll runners. 
“You’re just a bunch of animals! All you big fragtards know 
is violence,” a human screamed from the crowd. Others 
echoed the call. 
Roth saw where it started. It was one of the Humanis goons. 
The policlubber revved up those around him and pushed those 
62    >> TRUE BLUE TROG <<


===== PAGE 64 =====
who seemed ready to fight toward the front. Roth was the clos-
est and began to shift his position in the crowd, aligning him-
self with the approaching wave of violent hate. 
“We are not what they think of us,” Roth yelled out to 
those around him. “Their hatred doesn’t need to be ours.”
“There’s always a coward in the crowd,” came back across 
the gap, not the goon this time. The crowd was becoming 
emboldened. 
“Violence is a choice we all have—ork, troll, and human 
alike. It isn’t the answer to our political plight. It fuels the ha-
tred against us.” Roth stepped slightly into the gap and turned 
his back on the opposing crowd to speak to his side. “They 
hire us for our muscles, and we break our backs for them. 
They hire us to frighten people as their security and then call 
us violent. They push us to the outskirts where the dregs of 
society fight for their scraps and then label us monsters be-
cause we survive and thrive in those dark places. We are not 
the monsters.” His speech finished as he felt the impact on 
his back, the brunt of the hit absorbed by the well-concealed 
armor he wore. He turned to face his attacker.
Several of the humans at the front were screaming insults. 
Everything they could think of, they let loose. None of them 
were new. He’d heard them all, and he didn’t even look much 
like an ork, but they were nice enough to add in all of the pos-
er insults they could manage as well. 
Several more rocks flew at him. He braced and took the 
hits, feigning pain as the rocks bounced off. 
From the corner of his eye, Roth could see others on his 
side bending. He turned partially to his crowd and called out, 
“Do not sink to their depths! Do not meet rock with rock! I 
have done nothing but stand and speak truth. If they are hurt 
or fear these words and must lash out, show them we are not 
the same. We stand here, not in fear, but in defiance of fear.”
Roth was really beginning to enjoy his place at the fore-
front, being the voice of the masses gathered with him. It 
was natural for him to gravitate there—it’s what he did for 
the team—but it was different as part of a cause like this. He 
wasn’t just sticking it to some corp or even stealing from one 
to give to another. He was standing up for his people, he was 
speaking to change society. It was exhilarating. 
Exhilarating enough that the rock that connected solidly 
with his head did little more than cut his scalp. Though the 
metal skull and modified cerebral fluid probably helped. He 
was hired to take the hits, and he was taking them with flair.
Along the line more angry patches erupted. Each was met 
with a member of the team stepping forward, seeking to be 
the focus of the attacks. Scratch’s patch were quick to attack 
the violent-looking ork. Scratch hadn’t bothered to dress for 
the crowd; instead, he wore his leather jacket, complete with 
the sewed-over patches where his Crimson Crush tags had 
once been. Magpie and Aiken had more trouble getting their 
crowd to violence. It was easier to consider attacking some-
thing that only looked like a bulky human, but getting up the 
nerve to throw a rock or a fist at a troll, whose fists were easily 
the size of your head and they towered over you (and every-
one else around them) was a little tougher.
Roth couldn’t hear what was going on, but he could 
see it. He expected Scratch’s zone to erupt first, but is was 
Magpie who had to take the first fall. A small group pushed 
across the gap, two of the Humanis goons among them, 
and stormed onto her. She cast her cloak out wide, blocking 
those behind, and called out, “Let them strike me and Ma-
trix-cast it to the world!” 
Roth expected the crowd to ignore her and join the melee, 
but they pushed back, away from the scene, and pulled out 
their commlinks to record the beating. Magpie went down 
gently, slowly collapsing under the weight of the four humans 
piling onto her. It was honestly too slow in his view. It looked 
voluntary, but then again he knew the spells she had locked 
into herself. Their blows were doing nothing. 
When they came for Roth, he, too, did not fight. He raised 
hands to defend himself and let blows that he barely felt bring 
him to his knees so that he could rise again. He built it up for 
the crowd and called for their support, as witnesses. When he 
eventually fell to the ground his crowd had also backed off. 
They were all recording the violence. One of them even had a 
live feed that Roth was subscribed to. He watched the human 
above him repeatedly kick and stomp. A few hits truly hurt, 
but none of it would be permanent or even lasting. 
Every blow he took felt worth it. Worth the pain to show 
the world that trogs weren’t monsters.
News Report
Chicago, Southside
On the Southside side of the Core today, a protest turned 
bloody. A gathering of both supporters and detractors of the 
latest racially segregatory proposals aimed toward the recon-
struction of the city ended in violence, with one side bearing 
the brunt of the  attacks.
As supporters of the Humanis Policlub gathered opposite 
members of Mothers of Metahumans, the typical chants fo-
cused on the proposals in the state legislature became racial-
ly charged. Who threw the first slur can be debated, but no 
one can question which side turned words to violence. 
Footage posted to Matrix sites all over the globe showed 
the heroic stand taken by four individuals. Two orks and two 
trolls first faced a barrage of verbal abuse and responded only 
with positive rhetoric, only to have rocks and cans thrown at 
them before several not yet identified members of the oppo-
sition, resorted to fists and feet, brutally beating the four.
Both sides disbanded as Lone Star and local corporate se-
curity forces descended into the fray, likely saving the lives of 
the four brave metahumans.
Matrix drops with access to several pieces of footage are 
open for anyone who can offer a lead as to the identity of the 
assailants.
>> TRUE BLUE TROG <<    63


===== PAGE 69 =====
was not raised among my own kind. I was raised 
among humans. While I felt shame when they 
looked upon me, I earned their respect. Not with 
fist and foot, but with honor and restraint of my 
violent soul. That is the path denied those of my 
kind who are raised in ignorance and anger. 
>	
Internalized oppression and self-loathing are real.
>	
Sunshine
The orks—and I’ll include the trolls as well, 
for they are also in need of atonement—are wel-
comed into the Renraku family. They are given all 
the tools needed to act in the proper fashion, hon-
or the proper customs, and obey the appropriate 
laws, both criminal and social. They are confront-
ed with a choice: Will they breed anger at their 
indebtedness, or will they accept and overcome 
it. In life, we do not get to choose when a debt is 
owed; we wrong another, and they choose how 
the debt must be repaid. Life within Renraku is a 
chance to repay that debt. A chance to live a life of 
honor for ourselves, our children, and our families. 
I shall have an honorable family name to pass on. 
What others must understand is that our place 
in the corporation is not given to us as a right. It 
is earned. We do not have honor from our family 
name. We must earn every centimeter of a bow. 
We start from a place of shame, but we are not 
forced to stay there. We keep ourselves there by 
fighting against the honorable among us. Yes, they 
shame us and in doing so, shame themselves, but 
they can afford the small shame. When we strike 
out in anger or act against them with a desire for 
vengeance, we have no honor to spare. 
We can grow in Renraku. We can earn honor. 
We can aspire to give our future generations a 
place without shame. 
Or we can rebel. We can dishonor ourselves by 
acting out. We can huddle in anger and resentment 
at the bottom of the social caste because we are 
too prideful and angry to understand that this place 
only shuns those who shun it. We can fail to realize 
that we work to lift ourselves up but have nothing 
to fall back on, so there is not room for failure.
>	
Somebody drank the Kool-Aid!
>	
Slamm-0!
>	
But there is perhaps no better way to illustrate the Renraku 
mindset. The calm and conviction BigRedOne displays can 
be tremendously influential, and he also shows just what 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
68    WORKING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 70 =====
you have to go through to succeed at Renraku. You have 
to accept your own inferiority to be seen as good—it’s a 
kind of deeply internalized guilt I hear Catholic friends talk 
about. But rather than waiting for an unseen redemption, 
your parent corp is there waiting to help you purge your 
guilt. In Japanese society, with all the importance placed 
in being part of a larger whole, the fact that orks and trolls 
are offered any way in is a strong draw.
>	
Mihoshi Oni 
>	
That’s for the ones who stay. What BigRedOne 
has no real way to understand are those who he 
condemns, those who, in his terms, “huddle in anger 
and resentment at the bottom of the social caste.” He 
dismisses them, puts them out of mind, because that’s 
part of the whole point of the social conditioning he is 
subjected to. Mihoshi Oni’s Catholic analogy is perhaps 
more accurate than she understands (which is odd for a 
decidedly non-Catholic nation). Trogs are born with the 
original sin of their metatype. They are not fully human 
from birth; that humanity must be earned. If they do 
not earn it, then what is the loss? They were never fully 
human to begin with, so no human has been lost in the 
rejection of this trog.
Imagine, then, the resentment of the trogs who have 
been treated this way. Who have had to audition for the 
chance to be real people and did not pass. When you are 
rejected goods from Renraku—one of the most influential 
forces in the nation—where do you go? What can you be? 
Unsurprisingly, a lot of these people fall into the shadows, 
but be careful if you’re thinking about them as a great pool 
of potential recruits. They are often full of anger and feel 
as if they have nothing to lose, and that’s a dangerous 
combination.
>	
Jimmy No
>	
The best thing about all this Catholic imagery is that 
Renraku has truly been subjected to the wrath of an angry 
god.
>	
Netcat
I was asked to provide thoughts about 
shadowrunners in relation to Renraku, but I am 
hesitant to do so. My primary advice is that you 
simply should not do it, since you have little to 
gain and tremendous amounts to lose. The gains 
are trivial—a handful of nuyen—and the losses 
of honor and dignity are far more important. 
When you operate without structure and without 
discipline, you surrender yourself to what is weak 
inside you. Do not give in. Build strength instead 
of indulging weakness.
>	
Good hell, he talks like a self-help book.
>	
Cayman
>	
Actually, he talks like a Renraku employee manual. That 
last line is a direct quote.
>	
Mihoshi Oni
But I am not totally without pity. I understand 
that, in the process of building our eventual selves, 
we must often begin from low points. People may 
be in the shadows as a start to something better. So 
conduct yourself with honor. Negotiate honestly 
and keep the promises you make. If any Renraku 
personnel make reference to that which you are 
not, understand that they are simply pointing you 
to what you could be. Accept their words and 
actions with dignity.
I know that orks and trolls who run against 
Renraku might worry that they will be special 
targets 
for 
Renraku 
security 
forces. 
That’s 
foolishness. Our job is to defend what we have 
and to secure our premises. Everything else is 
subordinate to that.
>	
Yeah, he’s probably not being purposefully disingenuous—
he very possibly really doesn’t know that Renraku threat 
analysis procedures, more often than not, identify trolls 
and orks as the first targets to eliminate. Probably just a 
coincidence.
>	
2XL
Other than that, the same criteria that apply 
to employees of Renraku apply to those on the 
outside. Simply put, that means you will be treated 
as you demonstrate you deserve.
>	
Which is a concept that always sounds better to those 
deciding who deserves what.
>	
Jimmy No
SHIAWASE
POSTED BY: HIDEKO MACHIKI
I don’t like to speak for my people as a whole, 
but I will. I think everyone should get a chance 
to speak for themselves, because we all come 
from different places with different experiences. 
I know why I got picked. I’ve been around. I’ve 
been to a lot of places within Shiawase, so I’ve 
seen how the company treats orks and trolls in 
spots all over the world. As much as I’d love to 
say some places are better than others, it’s just 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WORKING AS A TROG IN...    69


===== PAGE 71 =====
not the case. Shiawase is pretty universal in their 
treatment of orks and trolls. 
It’s not deplorable, but it isn’t good by a long 
shot. As a whole, they are slightly more polite than 
Renraku, not trying quite as hard as Mitsuhama. 
They treat their orks and trolls with a sort of uni-
versal pity. It’s not negative, it’s not often overt, it 
just is. They aren’t condescending to them for the 
most part, but they also don’t give them much slack 
when it comes to being respectful. Disrespect will 
get a troll or ork quickly demoted to the lowest 
position in their current assignment. If there is no 
lower, they are docked pay, privileges, and often 
even access to basic necessities. There is definitely 
a price to pay for disrespect, but for the most part, 
the orks and trolls of Shiawase are tame. 
Shiawase citizens interacting with orks and trolls 
from outside the corp are often shocked at how 
brazen and outspoken they can be. They also often 
mistake their place as a megacorporate citizen to 
mean they have authority over people outside their 
corporate territory, and they often suffer grave con-
sequences for this action. But so too do the trolls 
and orks who cause them harm. Shiawase has no 
tolerance for violence against their employees by 
anyone, and old habits make them lean on orks 
and trolls harder than others. If their own corporate 
security doesn’t handle the problem, they are not 
above contracting out their discipline to shadow-
runners in order to keep their citizens safe. The cost 
is often placed onto the debt of the injured citizen, 
creating even greater animosity against metahu-
mans. But the scales must be balanced somehow, 
and bringing shame to Shiawase by shaming an 
outsider deserves punishment. 
As you can guess, there is not a lot of room for 
advancement up the corporate ranks. Minor man-
agement positions are about the best any ork or 
troll can ever hope for within Shiawase, and they 
had better not make any mistakes once they get 
there. The powers above and around them are like-
ly at the full length of their tolerance in having to 
deal with an ork or troll with any power. And those 
below them are looking for every opportunity pos-
sible to knock them down. The best and smartest 
orks and trolls work hard to get their offices and 
production lines filled with other orks and trolls. 
As that sometimes creates a “sell-out” mentality, 
moving up in Shiawase is kind of a “damned if you 
do, damned if you don’t” scenario.
The one thing I can give Shiawase some cred-
it for in the understanding department is their 
Shiawase Social Circles. These small-group clubs 
are intended to allow citizens of Shiawase to get 
together and talk about life in the company, as 
well as their personal lives, with others of sim-
ilar social standing. It’s supposed to prevent 
cross-status griping and give citizens an outlet. 
For a lot of orks and trolls, it gives them a chance 
to actually talk and socialize with others of their 
kind in a place where they aren’t forced to hold a 
certain face, or remain silent because of their so-
cietal status. The structure of this group means 
that suggestions for ways to improve corporate 
practices are regularly passed on to manage-
ment. They might not have a strong track record 
of doing anything with most of these recom-
mendations, but some movement on even one 
or two recommendations is better than things 
were in the old days. Or at Renraku.
>	
It’s nice that this gentleman sees this as a good thing, 
just like a good corporate drone, but these meetings are 
all monitored by the MFID, Shiawase’s intel operation. 
Suggestions may go to management, but hints of 
insubordination and discontent get there faster.
>	
Thorn  
>	
Hideko doesn’t have a lot of information about trog 
runners dealing with Shiawase, so let me fill you in. 
Shiawase is more conscious than their peers about 
keeping their shadowy activity quite dark. With their direct 
connections to the Imperial family, they want to avoid 
clear engagement in criminal activity. This goes beyond 
the basics of having a Department of Unspecified Services 
and using the name Mr. Tanaka when hiring runners. 
Within Japan, they outsource their runs, using a rotating 
series of fixers. They’re so dedicated to not having any 
fixers being clearly identified as in their pocket that they 
will sometimes arrange runs against their own holdings 
just to throw people off their scent.
The end result is that when you’re hired by Shiawase, 
little of their corporate culture will trickle down to the 
fixer and Mr. Tanaka, because that’s how the corp wants 
it. So you might get an out-and-out racist, or you might 
get someone who takes you for who you are rather than 
make snap judgments based on your metatype. All this is 
to say: Don’t count on predictability.
>	
Mihoshi Oni
EVO
POSTED BY: DEVOTED
Let’s just cross over to Evo, as they were once 
a Japanacorp but have truly evolved with this 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
70    WORKING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 76 =====
The American dream has transferred to the Ares 
dream, and it transcends race. Ares has adver-
tisements all over the place that depict every 
metatype working for the well-known Americorp 
and every one of their subsidiaries. From arms to 
construction, security to logistics, Ares always 
has its bases covered when it comes to keeping 
their image balanced. 
I snagged a copy of the employment tracking 
while I was trying to dig up some dirt on Terrance 
Davis, a low-level HR exec whose wife suspected 
him of cheating. It turned out to be a wild goose 
chase, but the data I pulled seemed good for 
some side cash. I made a comment on a Matrix 
site about it, and here we are. So let’s talk about 
trolls and orks, and their employment status within 
Ares Macrotechnology and its subsidiaries. 
I don’t have universal data. There are plenty 
of employees under the Ares umbrella who don’t 
make it onto official records, or their position is re-
corded only as accurately as someone with power 
desires. That said, Ares employs a lot of orks and 
trolls. The vast majority of them fall into the lowest 
five percent on the Ares income charts, and most 
work in fields where they cover up the drek work 
they do with fancy titles. They cover this less-than-
equal treatment with good PR and lots of positive 
ork and troll stories spun through their internal 
media. The citizens of Ares don’t seem to have a 
beef with orks and trolls, even those from outside 
the company, but the insiders and those who con-
trol movement up the ladder skew their promo-
tions toward other metatypes. Sorry, insider view. 
Data shows that orks and trolls are most heav-
ily promoted within Ares security divisions and 
subsidiaries. These are the places where their 
muscle often gets them enough exposure to earn 
them a second look from the higher-ups, and it’s 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WORKING AS A TROG IN...    75


===== PAGE 77 =====
an area with enough risk that untimely accidents 
can easily be arranged for those who don’t pay 
off in the way the bosses expected. Knight Errant 
gets a lot of them, but the figures showed an even 
larger percentage getting bumped over to Hard 
Corps, and Wolverine takes the cake with the 
highest percentage of ork and troll employees of 
any Ares subsidiary. We all know the reputation 
that those sec corps have, and it looks like Ares 
just likes to put the big, mean trolls and orks out 
on the goon squad to break heads and scare off 
shadowrunners. 
Outside of security, the next biggest division to 
employ orks and trolls is construction, where I’m 
sure their strong minds are being put to use in the 
architectural design field. Oh, wait, no—the data 
shows them heavy in the labor force, and percent-
ages dwindle rapidly as we look higher and higher 
up the corporate food chain. 
As an employee, I found this data deplorable. 
Our overall treatment of this segment of metahu-
manity is just wrong. We use them for their strength 
and then shut them out. I hope this data gets out to 
people who can see what Ares is truly like—to peo-
ple who will spread the truth and hopefully open 
the eyes of not only citizens of Ares, but also citi-
zens of all the megacorps around the world.  
One division deserves special attention, and 
that’s Knight Errant. Any security corporation has a 
complicated relationship with orks and trolls, and 
this one is no different. Security corps love to hire 
orks and trolls—the extra nuyen you have to spend 
on uniforms that fit them is more than compen-
sated for by their intimidation value on the streets. 
A troll working crowd control is worth four or five 
humans.
>	
And seven or eight elves. Hi-yo.
>	
2XL
The trick is convincing orks and trolls to do law 
enforcement work. An awful lot of them grew up 
viewing law enforcement as antagonists, or even 
their enemy. So making the switch to consider it as 
a career is not simple. And it’s not just from within—
family and friends often apply significant pressure 
to keep orks and trolls out of law enforcement, tell-
ing them they’ll be traitors to their people.
This means that the orks and trolls who make 
it to the ranks of law enforcement are often very 
committed to the job. They’ve overcome a lot of 
opposition to the job from within and without, so 
they’re very certain of their path. They can tend to 
the fanatical, so keep that in mind if you want to 
convince them to look the other way or take a bribe.
>	
As is the case with any generalization, there are plenty 
of exceptions. Some trogs joined the force in a burst 
of idealism, only to be ground down as they see the 
unfairness the justice system directs toward orks and 
trolls. They stay on the job, mostly through inertia, but 
they may become lazy, corrupt, or willing to undermine 
certain investigations to promote their vision of fairness. 
It adds a certain amount of chaos and unpredictability to 
any encounter with trog cops.
>	
Sunshine
SAEDER-KRUPP
POSTED BY: KORPKINDER
The utter chill of the street rep everything associ-
ated with S-K manages to possess makes any as-
sessment of a single aspect relatively moot. The 
corp is feared worldwide. They are seen as ruth-
less and hyper-efficient, without a sense of hu-
manity at all. Looking just at that overall view, one 
can only infer that Saeder-Krupp looks at orks and 
trolls the same way it looks at guns, steel, and cars: 
as tools to better their bottom line by using them 
in the most efficient and effective way possible.
When you talk Big Ten, up until recently, the 
biggest of the group was Saeder-Krupp. One of 
the things that got Lofwyr’s corp to the top of the 
heap was an understanding of how to use resourc-
es to their fullest potential. I’m not saying orks and 
trolls are simply resources, but in the eyes of Lof-
wyr, everything and everyone in his corporation 
are resources. That attitude tends to flow down 
from the top, getting a bit thinner as you reach the 
corporate laymen, for whom bits of racial hostili-
ty remain based on residual resentment left over 
from the formation of the Black Forest Troll King-
dom (now Black Forest Troll Republic). The chop-
ping off of such a large chunk of Bavaria left a bad 
taste in the mouths of other Germans. The attitude 
is stronger the closer to the German foundation of 
the corp you get, but it travels with the executives 
and workers around the world. 
Most orks and trolls who work their way up into 
the higher ranks of the corp are from offices and 
subsidiaries not directly tied to Germany. But once 
they have proven themselves, they don’t catch flak 
for tusks or horns in the megacorporate headquar-
ters. Lower in the ranks, orks and trolls deal with 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
76    WORKING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 78 =====
more issues from people outside their corp than 
inside, even though they’re far enough down the 
corporate ladder that they struggle to get noticed 
by anyone else in the corp. 
While not exactly politically correct, and not 
universal over the entire megacorp, there is a 
definite dislike or distrust of elves and dwarfs, 
which provides the orks and trolls of the compa-
ny another advantage. It’s a common view that 
elves and dragons don’t get along, and while this 
issue is mainly the result of an elite few elves, the 
rest of the elven population is scrutinized for the 
possibility that they could be coordinating with 
that elite group. 
The issue with dwarfs is a different one. Lof-
wyr isn’t a huge fan of international networks 
leading out of his corporation, but he is also not 
keen on losing access to these same networks. 
He just needs to control the flow of information. 
Point is, elves and dwarfs are handicapped here, 
leaving orks and trolls to push forward and move 
up the SK ladder. 
The social life of orks and trolls within SK is one 
of the best in the megacorporate world, and I don’t 
just say that because it’s my corp. The social soci-
eties of SK are unmatched in corp and private cir-
cles, especially for trolls. Part of this is in an effort to 
give trolls who stayed on as SK citizens, rather than 
moving to a nation of their own, a place to develop 
connections and feel at home. These societies have 
stuck around and grown over time. Other groups, 
including numerous ork-centered social organiza-
tions, have followed suit and sprouted up all over 
the world. Other corps have similar groups, but un-
like them, all we care about here is that orks and 
trolls have a place inside SK that makes them feel 
like more than just meat and muscle.
>	
SK has no special love for orks and trolls. They also have 
no special love for anyone else other than drakes. Though 
if an ork or a troll were a drake, I guess they might get 
special treatment. My point is, the orks and trolls inside 
SK aren’t treated special. They’re treated like everyone 
else. The elves, dwarfs, humans, and other sapients 
inside the mega have social clubs, and opportunities to 
move up. Lofwyr wants the best, and the only way to 
push for everyone to be the best is to create competition 
and interaction.
>	
Cosmo  
Moving away from more general statements, 
there are some areas of particular interest. The 
aforementioned Black Forest Troll Republic is one 
of those. As I mentioned, there is some resentment 
within some parts of the corp, especially among 
old-timers, but the growing strength of the 
Republic has generated business possibilities that 
can’t be ignored. The question is what approach 
SK wants to use with regard to this nation. There 
is a vocal contingent within the corp—especially 
that older group—that wants to use SK’s might to 
crush the economic strength of the Republic. Find 
corps within the Republic who are doing well, use 
SK’s mass to undercut them on price and bury 
them. Some people say this won’t work, because 
the Republic is too restrictive in its trade policies 
and the citizens are too willing to make economic 
sacrifices in order to support home-grown corps. 
They also argue that it is unwise. Why declare 
economic war on a nation that seems to be 
growing in strength and could become a strong 
partner if you play your cards right? These voices 
favor building stronger trade partnerships with 
the Republic, getting an in that other megacorps 
may lack and taking advantage of this increasingly 
powerful customer base. To some, that’s a bitter 
pill to swallow, because it acknowledges that the 
land won’t be coming back to the AGS anytime 
soon. Others, though, could care less about 
national borders, since everyone knows that’s not 
how power is determined in the Sixth World.
>	
There’s are a couple of trog-specific elements to this. First, 
of course, is the fact that SK must cater to a trog audience 
if they want to gain a foothold in the Republic. Second, 
they had better have some troll sales executives working 
on making the access happen, or they won’t get far. Are 
you a troll in SK looking for a career boost, or do you 
know such a troll? Find a way to get a position working on 
negotiations with the Republic.
>	
Thorn
Another area of interest is Bogotá. Saeder-
Krupp was poised to rebuild the city even before 
the Az-Am War ended, and their efforts have 
borne fruit. Fifty-five percent of the electricity in 
the city is now supplied by SK plants, and they 
pretty much have a monopoly on bridge and 
road construction. Some parts of Aztechnology 
have expressed irritation at these facts, but the 
efficiency of SK’s services have helped keep those 
mutters relatively quiet.
So what does this have to do with trogs? 
Aztechnology, especially this close to the 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WORKING AS A TROG IN...    77


===== PAGE 80 =====
The orks and trolls themselves, those who are 
not in tune with their exact nature, find Wuxing to 
be a place where the design of your physical form 
is not what guides you. Certainly there are those 
within the corporation who cannot understand an 
ork being aligned with the sky. But it happens, and 
Wuxing helps guide them in the way that makes 
the best use of their energy, no matter the expect-
ed alignments that others see.
We are all metahuman, though, and jealousy 
is a fiery emotion that can taint the coolest heads 
at times. Seeing someone supplant you in a way 
you do not expect is not easy. The trogs of Wuxing 
face issues along those lines on a regular, but not 
rampant, basis. Being so firmly grounded certainly 
helps, but their opposition is often air, a force that 
does not often exert its efforts directly. Thus, the 
conflict is often far more mental than physical. It 
tends to play out as frustration on the part of the 
trogs as they find pathways that should be open 
to them blocked, along with frustration on their 
opposition’s part as the trogs frequently barrel 
through with little notice. Earth is hard to stop.
>	
Thing about Wuxing is, they didn’t have the same ork and 
troll numbers that other corps and regions had. So they 
don’t consider it an issue.
>	
Dr. Spin
>	
They don’t have the numbers because, like most regional 
cultures, they had very little problem abandoning their 
unwanted children. Traditionally that meant girl children, 
but as soon as the Awakening hit, metahumans, especially 
orks and trolls, joined the list.
>	
Lei Kung
>	
Except trolls and orks expressed through Goblinization, 
so it wasn’t as simple as leaving your baby at a church 
or in a river. Instead it became a generation of forgotten 
children, forced out into the world.
>	
Mihoshi Oni
>	
There are quite a few gangs in the previous Chinese 
nations that are almost completely composed of 
metahumans. They started back when the first children 
were shunned and cast out. Their names are always 
related to these events: the Shunned, the Outcasts, the 
Forsaken, etc. 
>	
Lei Kung
As I’m sure many of you are aware, the 
foundation of Wuxing has shifted and grown in 
recent times. The tumult among the Big Ten and 
beyond has led to many seeking emergency 
financing, and often that support comes from 
Wuxing. The interest in that financing has led to 
significant gains; assets acquired after defaults are 
perhaps greater. There are mutters that Wuxing is 
using much of its heft in the shadows to make sure 
some loans default, as they would rather foreclose 
than just collect cash. They say that in many ways, 
the emergency financing program has really 
become a hostile takeover program, and Wuxing 
is very much in a buying mood.
What does this change mean for orks and trolls? 
First, it means many are being brought into Wuxing 
from other backgrounds, entirely unfamiliar with our 
way of working, and sometimes unfamiliar with the 
potential inside them. The culture adjustment can 
cause problems, but we all know the world we live 
in. We adjust, because there are few options to do 
otherwise. Second, the type of expansion Wuxing 
is embarking upon does not happen without 
planning. Ork and troll executives are finding new 
advancement opportunities opening up, and their 
power is growing within the corp. How this will affect 
the overall shape of the corp, including whether 
C-suite-level and board demographics will change, 
is written on the flow of the world’s energies.
>	
One of the funny, but not ha-ha funny, things about the 
world is how people who used to seem open-minded 
and tolerant suddenly find their tolerance drying up when 
they start competing for scarce resources. So some execs 
who welcomed orks and trolls in various capacities may 
find themselves wanting to limit their roles if it looks like 
trogs might start competing for their jobs. Never forget 
that banding together against things that are different is a 
basic human instinct.
>	
2XL
As far as I know, shadowrunner orks and trolls 
are treated much like ork and troll employees—
that is to say, they will fit where they are needed. 
Perhaps the most significant difficulty is that 
while employees have a decent understanding 
of the Wuxing way of thought, outside runners 
may not. This means that when Mr. Johnson 
attempts to explain how diviners have perceived 
the roles of certain runners, it may vary from their 
own self-perception. This can cause confusion, 
or even hostility. Fortunately, most Wuxing Mr. 
Johnsons are socially skilled enough to make 
such observations in ways that don’t give offense, 
or to not make them at all and simply deploy 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WORKING AS A TROG IN...    79


===== PAGE 81 =====
runners as they see fit, regardless of the runners’ 
understanding of what they do best.
>	
Which still causes some confusion. I know a troll who 
specializes in combat magic who did multiple jobs for 
Wuxing that kept putting her in a support position, where 
someone with manipulation, healing, or illusion skills 
would function better. She finally asked Mr. Johnson why 
he kept hiring her if he didn’t want her to do her thing, 
and he gave her the smug smile that people always can 
deploy and said he was simply happy that her perception 
of her skills didn’t affect her actual performance.
>	
Elijah
>	
So as she kept taking jobs from him?
>	
Pistons
>	
Yes. After all, nuyen’s nuyen. And her illusion spells have 
become fairly creative and potent.
>	
Elijah
>	
As always, the path eventually reveals itself.
>	
Arete
NEONET (HA HA)
POSTED BY: ERIC WILLIAMS
I’m only doing this mess because we haven’t 
seen where everything will fall from this collaps-
ing house of cards. Whatever happens, it was a 
shame to lose NeoNET. They played fair with us 
trogs, and it wasn’t bad spending time on their 
payroll. The streets saw them as such a resilient 
firm that the view spread to all levels of their 
existence. Everything about NeoNET was about 
building and rebuilding from the street’s stand-
point. At this point, many people think it’s not 
over, especially those low in the corp who don’t 
have much choice in where they go. There are 
quite a few orks and trolls in that pool, so the 
streets are seeing the fall of NeoNET as a flood-
gate of trogs slipping into the pool of SINless 
and streeters. There’s a lot of worry about what 
comes next, and that a lot of trogs may end in the 
wrong place.
I’m a realist. My world is coming apart. The 
corporation that I spent my adult life believing in 
and working to develop—well, working to get to 
a place where I could help develop it—is already 
splintered and soon to be a blip on the megacorpo-
rate history radar. By the time my kids are my age, 
they won’t even remember NeoNET. It’s like Fuchi, 
CATCo, or Novatech. The names are remembered 
because some of them still get slapped on labels, 
but none of them are megacorporations of any 
rating. They’re subdivisions of subsidiaries, kept 
around because their brand name is still strong 
where it’s used. Eventually, that will be NeoNET. 
Except nothing ever got a NeoNET branding, so 
that conglomeration of corporations will just fade 
into memory. 
As someone told me to prepare something 
about the trolls and orks of NeoNET, I should proba-
bly get to the point. But I needed to clear that up so 
I can talk about the real future for trogs after Neo-
NET is no more. Within a year or two—you never 
know if the Corporate Court is going to drag it out 
or drop it like a guillotine—NeoNET will be totally 
dissolved. Transys-Erika had already parted ways, 
and then parted from each other. Transys-Neuronet 
is once again separate from Erika, and both have 
left the majority of the financial responsibilities of 
NeoNET on former Novatech assets. Looking to the 
future of trogs, let’s look at these three separately. 
Novatech first, then T-N, and finally Erika, because 
they’ve got different styles.
First, Novatech. Why? Because it’s really easy. 
The trolls and orks of Novatech don’t have much 
of an outlook for their future. With the cost of re-
munerations for Boston and its ongoing quaran-
tine falling primarily at the feet of the hometown 
megacorp, every asset and subsidiary of the mega 
will be sold off to other corps. Some of the pieces 
might get lucky and end up in the hands of No-
vatech’s former co-conspirators, but the biggest 
sharks currently circling are MCT, Spinrad, and 
Saeder-Krupp. Not the best places for a trog to 
end up. As the corp dissolves, the vast majority of 
trolls and orks are going to end up back in the re-
spective SIN pools of their nations, or slid into the 
new Global Registry linked to the Corporate Court. 
Without a corp and living under the laws of a new 
society, I don’t think trolls and orks are going to 
manage well if they are stuck with Novatech.
>	
Here’s one of the dirty secrets of the Boston quarantine. 
Plenty of people have asked why it has gone on for so 
long, and why the disease can’t be contained. The answer 
is the same as it always is in the Sixth World—the corps 
found a profitable reason to keep the thing going. Once 
the other nine joined in resolve to pin the blame for CFD 
on NeoNET, the ongoing deprivations behind the wall 
became continual justification to levy fines on any and 
all NeoNET properties. Novatech might still have robust 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
80    WORKING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 82 =====
sales in some sectors, but every time they get a revenue 
stream going, the Corporate Court peeks behind the wall 
and finds some justification for punishing them with 
heavy fines. Just like that, the revenue is gone. Novatech, 
and many other subsidiaries, won’t be able to dig their 
way out, because the rest of the Big Ten are intent on 
making the hole ever deeper.
>	
Sunshine
Transys-Neuronet is a slightly different story. 
They are skidding along under the radar of blame, 
but their time as a pet project and personal think 
tank for Celedyr is over. The dragon has already 
been removed from his position as head of R&D 
and been reassigned to head up specific proj-
ects—ones that were his from the start—that are 
all getting extra scrutiny. Failures will be pinned on 
him directly, rather than being associated with his 
subordinates or individual project leads. I’m not 
sure a dragon really cares about corporate blame, 
but the board will, and they’ll cut corp funding. 
What I like to call the “worry-wart” races (read: 
non-trogs) are all avoiding him and finding every 
reason possible to get transferred elsewhere. This 
is opening up a lot of positions for orks and trolls 
who don’t mind hitching their wagon to a dragon. 
The percentage of T-N-employed trogs has easi-
ly doubled over the past year, and word spread, 
leading to many displaced orks and trolls finding a 
new home with T-N.
Last, I look to Erika because it has done the 
most to give orks and trolls a fair deal in this cor-
porate shake-up. Between the interest and invest-
ment in African corps and the mingling it has al-
ready done with its Northern European associate, 
Maersk, Erika has handed many a trog an oppor-
tunity to excel within its expanding ranks. Trolls 
and orks are being given opportunities all over the 
world to show the executives and Board at Erika 
(and Maersk) that they deserve more than grunt 
work. Expect to sit across the table from orks and 
trolls in negotiations and meetings with Erika for 
the foreseeable future. 
>	
A nice reminder of the collapsed NeoNET, and good to see 
where some of their work is going to end up.
>	
Mr. Bonds
>	
Biz is still hopping in St. Louis as NeoNET’s ARCHology 
headquarters is done and ready for occupancy. It just 
needs to come to rest in someone’s capable hands. 
>	
/dev/grrl 
>	
Or it can get taken down before it ever sees a real owner. 
It’s a huge symbolic target for a lot of groups, both for 
and against. Several of those groups could definitely use 
some publicity with a hit like that, and possibly the good 
PR for doing it while it’s empty.
>	
Balladeer
>	
It’s still got a public park under it and construction workers. 
No hit is going to be collateral-free unless you get some 
lessons from Hestaby.
>	
Frosty
Don’t fool yourself into thinking that NeoNET’s 
plunging status means it’s pulled out of the 
shadows. Yes, their activity is reduced due to 
funds being a little more scarce, but they’re still 
hiring. Executives are looking for better landing 
places, corps are trying to interfere with the 
competition so that their travails don’t seem so 
bad by comparison, and anyone and everyone 
is looking for insider information that might help 
them know just when the final hammer will fall.
Experienced shadowrunners, of course, can 
smell panic from ten kilometers away, and they 
tend to steer clear of it. Desperation does not 
tend to breed good planning and loyalty, so 
taking runs from such clients can be a risk. But 
if you’re a newer shadowrunner looking to break 
into the biz—or perhaps more to the point, a 
trog shadowrunner who thinks their metatype 
has kept people from giving them a fair shake 
in the field—this might be your chance. NeoNET 
and their subsidiaries are not in a position to be 
highly selective about who they hire, so make a 
connection, show them what you can do, and 
build a reputation.
>	
Noob shadowrunners flocking to take on ill-planned jobs 
conceived by desperate people? What could go wrong?
>	
Hard Exit
SIERRA, INC. 
POSTED BY: ECOTOPE
Street rep: tree huggers. Trolls and orks can just 
hug bigger trees. I wish I was serious that it were 
that simple, but the shadows are never that easy-
going. Sierra works a delicate balance in the 
shadows—they play up their mainstream environ-
mentalism in the light of day, but there have been 
longstanding rumors about them funneling mon-
ey to some of the more extreme groups there, in-
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WORKING AS A TROG IN...    81


===== PAGE 83 =====
cluding toxic and eco-terrorism operations. And 
who better to play the role of the eco-terrorist 
than the ork or troll toxic shaman dressed in rags 
and living in radioactive goo? 
The streets can be fairly stupid sometimes.
I don’t necessarily know much about ork and 
troll life, but I know about Sierra, and I know how 
they would treat orks and trolls. That’s because it’s 
the same way they treat everyone: as people who 
need to prove what they are doing to improve the 
condition of the planet if they want to be judged 
as worthwhile. The skin you wear doesn’t matter 
nearly as much as the level to which you devote 
your life to protecting the big blue marble. Within 
Sierra, Inc. if you love the environment, it doesn’t 
matter what you look like. Led by a dwarf in the 
past, with a troll (Gary Gray) at the helm now, they 
have no limits on who can achieve what within 
their corporate halls. 
They say that metatype doesn’t matter to them, 
and their actions often back that up, but the prob-
lem is that sometimes it needs to, like housing and 
laws based on age and development. Troll size isn’t 
considered beyond the oversized chairs they can 
occasionally find. You would expect that seating 
wouldn’t be an issue when the current head hon-
cho is a troll, but it is. Gary Gray has tried to avoid 
throwing his weight around and doesn’t like forcing 
aspects of the company to suit him just because 
he’s a troll. His office is large, but no larger than it 
was for Vogel. Only the furniture has changed, and 
that was only to accommodate a desk and chair 
that he could work at, though he spends very little 
time at that desk. He prefers to be out in the world, 
improving people’s views of trolls while mingling in 
the nature he wants to preserve.
I have always found the growth of Sierra, Inc. 
to be quite interesting. They assist with large num-
bers of orks and trolls moving out of poverty and a 
life on the streets or in the shadows through their 
Plant a SIN initiative. The program helps anyone, 
though the most prolific utilization comes from 
orks and trolls born into the barrens and slums of 
the world. After Sierra helps them get s SIN, those 
SINs are almost immediately employed by Sierra. 
It’s a mutually beneficial relationship.
>	
With the new Global SIN initiative, Sierra is being 
scrutinized. The CC thinks they are pumping phony SINs 
out into the world. I’m sure if they’re snagging fakes it’s 
for their own operatives, not for the streets. 
>	
Snopes
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
82    WORKING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 85 =====
SPINRAD 
INDUSTRIES
POSTED BY: SPINSIDER
Everyone sees SpIn—Spinrad Industries—with 
Johnny at the forefront. That’s not to say they’re all 
pro-human or anything, but rather that they see 
everything with an extreme twist. That doesn’t 
hold back orks and trolls, and in fact SpIn’s sports 
franchises make a killing with their trog athletes 
who get plastered on advertising all over the 
world’s major metroplexes. 
Thanks to a whole lot of SpIndependence, the 
views of orks and trolls inside Spinrad aren’t ex-
actly stable. You can’t expect the same views and 
attitude from someone in Lisbon as you’d get from 
someone in St. Louis. In Lisbon, they’re all going 
to be super pro-ork, rooting for Tucker Lang and 
the Lisbon Navigators, the only international team 
to beat an NFL team during last year’s exhibitions. 
In St. Louis, you’re looking at a lot of troll-love as 
Hakrin Gresham is currently devastating the urban 
brawl scene for SpIn’s St. Louis Razors farm club. It 
goes the other way too: SpIn citizens in Africa are 
currently hating trolls thanks to Kurg Dansk, the 
outrider for S-K’s urban brawl franchise in the FAL 
(Free African League). 
So I hope you see and understand my point 
with this. Views on orks and trolls inside SpIn ar-
en’t based on a racial bias as much as a compet-
itive streak that infects every aspect of the corp. 
While you won’t find Dansk’s detractors burning 
troll effigies in the hallways outside a troll’s hous-
ing quarters, you will find that trolls get scrutinized 
more heavily and passed over for promotion more 
often when they are currently out of favor in their 
particular locale. The winds of change blow fre-
quently, but inside SpIn it’s best to know which 
way they’re currently blowing before you decide if 
it’s time to pitch for that new project. 
Sports teams and clubs within the corp are 
always looking for ringers and a little extra juice 
here and there, so trolls and orks get brought in on 
anything where muscle might help. They also play 
the occasional joke, all getting together to join the 
same team for things like football, roller derby, 
volleyball, and other physical sports, where they 
dominate the mostly human teams. 
>	
Side track—I was breaking into a SpIn housing complex to 
plant some evidence a few years back for a Johnson. I was 
tucked away in a vent and slithering over the gymnasium 
when a volleyball game starts up below me. It was a team 
of dwarfs playing a team of trolls. It was comical, but not 
near as one-sided as you might think. Dwarfs have a great 
dig game and trolls have a hard time reading when a ball 
is going out, so they play all sorts of garbage. Trolls won, 
but the entire crowd—a fully mixed bag—got into it and 
enjoyed the fun.
>	
Mika
I’m not sure if SpIn is going to stay so fun-lov-
ing and exciting in the future, but up until this 
point, they’ve been a good place for trogs. The 
corporate acquaintances that they’ve been court-
ing would likely calm the boisterous nature of the 
wild megacorp, just like they seem to be calming 
the corp’s namesake. I’m on the inside but not 
that high up, so I don’t know how serious his ef-
forts are or if he’s playing a con. But I imagine the 
latter would turn out very badly if it were to be 
discovered, or even if it just played out and end-
ed up being true. 
From what I’ve heard, doing runs for SpIn as an 
ork or troll is unpredictable. It’s one thing doing a 
run for a dragon, where the boss’ thinking is so far 
ahead of your own that you can’t figure out the 
twists of their plots in advance. Working for SpIn 
can be like working for someone who thinks they 
have the strategic and tactical genius of a dragon 
but actually is a combination of crafty planning, 
impatient recklessness, and occasional impulsive 
leaps. With the dragons, you usually can make 
sense of their plans after the fact; with SpIn, you 
may never understand the moves they made, be-
cause there is a distinct possibility that they made 
no sense. And the boss likes it that way—he’s al-
ways felt that unpredictability is one of his corp’s 
strengths, and you can’t be unpredictable if you’re 
always doing the right thing. 
What this means is this: Don’t expect to be 
treated fairly. Don’t expect to be judged solely 
on your merits. Don’t expect to be discriminated 
against. Don’t expect that because you’re a troll 
and they love trolls in St. Louis, they’ll love you 
there. Don’t expect anything. Be ready for every-
thing. If playing at racism—or deploying actual rac-
ists against you—fits what the plan calls for, that’s 
what they’ll do. Doesn’t make sense to you? Great. 
That’s the plan.
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
84    WORKING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 86 =====
MAERSK
POSTED BY: CAPTAIN ULV
They ship stuff, right? So trolls and orks work on 
their ships and docks. There’s plenty of machines 
in this world to do the lifting and hauling for us, 
but there are always times when old-fashioned 
biological muscle is needed, and for those occa-
sions, we’re available.
Getting a public opinion on a corp requires 
the public to know a little more than they usu-
ally do. Hence the reason it sucks being a name 
seen everywhere but understood nowhere. This 
megacorp has some serious smokescreening up 
with the whole “single name posted on shipping 
containers all over the world” thing. 
Short of it: There is no public opinion. You only 
have an opinion on Maersk if you know the real 
Maersk.
If Maersk were just a shipping company, I’d 
have little to worry about every time I board one 
of their massive vessels. They started out basic but 
expanded quickly, and now they dabble in mar-
kets and fields all across the globe. Obviously, or 
else they wouldn’t be a multinational AA-rated 
megacorporation. While being more, they also 
have the advantage of people knowing less. For 
example, Maersk has their own special opera-
tions security force. Scary fraggers who I don’t like 
meeting, on or off the water. Why do I mention 
them? Because a lot of them are trolls and orks. 
Seems a troll with some cyberfins and a set of gills 
or an air tank can move at quite a clip underwater. 
It’s not just there that orks and trolls are valued 
in the Maersk hierarchy. The entire company has 
niches and fields that their HR people seem to be-
lieve are best filled by certain metatypes. Docks 
around the world often have ork workers. Maersk 
docks often match this, but when it comes to go-
ing into those other docks and looking to negoti-
ate contracts, Maersk has familiar tusked faces to 
send in, men and women with time both on the 
dock and at the negotiation table. 
It seems a universal principle at Maersk that 
every employee is valued for what they bring to the 
company. Orks and trolls aren’t necessarily treated 
in a friendly way, but they are definitely treated fair.  
>	
The Maersk-Erika thing? Who’s got info?
>	
Snopes
>	
Maersk has been in talks and associated with a lot of corps 
over the past few years. Speculation that doesn’t pan out, 
mergers that just aren’t feasible, and ego battles that can’t 
be overcome with money are the biggest roadblocks. 
>	
Mr. Bonds
>	
And runners. The entire Megacorp Revision has been 
a corporate shadow war. Everyone is looking to keep 
everyone else from making the needed moves to jump 
up. Sabotaging mergers with planted espionage, security 
breaches, and a host of other moves has kept all the 
doubles and singles from hooking up and going triple or 
hooking up with a triple.
>	
Fianchetto
Both inside and outside of the shadows, Maersk 
has a reputation for being brusque and businesslike. 
So while it may not feel like the corp cares for you 
if you’re an ork or troll, that’s because the corp 
does not truly care for anyone. Having people who 
care for you is the job of your friends and family; 
the corp strongly recommends that employees 
get some, though of course they do not provide 
an abundance of free time so that employees 
can make that happen. Don’t expect them to be 
pleasant, and be ready to maybe haul a box or two 
at some point in time, and you’ll be fine.
UNIVERSAL 
OMNITECH
POSTED BY: CORP CANVASSER 
The choice of such a plain and relatively generic 
corporate moniker is one of those hints that tells 
you these guys don’t want to be noticed or pi-
geonholed into any single field, limited to the work 
and income in one area. The name shows that they 
truly wish to be a universal megacorporation.
Within those same ideals, we find their views 
on orks and trolls. They’re open-minded and look-
ing to utilize them in whatever fashion best fits 
into their universal bottom line. Or so the assump-
tion on the street needs to go, because there isn’t 
anything to go on.
Connecting UO with orks and trolls—that’s 
what the famous VPN JackPoint has me doing. I 
finally get tapped for something, and it’s this. I 
should make the best of it and stop complaining. 
I could say I have an easy one here because UO 
is, on the surface, a remarkably neutral corpora-
tion. But that’s the reason why we do things like 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WORKING AS A TROG IN...    85


===== PAGE 87 =====
this—why we ask people like me to dig deeper and 
shine a little light on the truth. 
It doesn’t take a massive Matrix search to dis-
cover UO’s main interests are biotech and min-
ing, with a side serving of food production. Sure, 
they cover hundreds of other fields, but these are 
the rings where they throw their heaviest punch-
es. With a deep desire to win those fights, they 
manage quite a number of internal assets to best 
maximize efficiency. That’s what the memos say, 
at least. UO has no problem with trolls and orks, 
as long as they sign up for research and augmen-
tation studies. If a troll or ork citizen is not willing 
to participate, UO wants nothing to do with them. 
While that sounds cruel, we don’t live in a nice 
world, and UO knows they don’t have to answer to 
anyone but their shareholders. 
You won’t find many orks or trolls in the upper 
offices, but you will find thousands of them aug-
mented in a myriad of ways to better enhance the 
security and labor pool at UO facilities, especially 
in the arena of mining. The augmentations they 
get are also not all standard. The biotech side uses 
subjects for product research and testing. It’s usu-
ally favorable, as the company doesn’t want to lose 
labor time, but not every experiment goes right.
>	
Never pictured UO as being so prejudiced. 
>	
Butch
>	
It’s not prejudice. There is no malice in their efforts. They 
just use the tools available for the best purpose. Are you 
prejudiced against the hammer because you always use 
the screwdriver? No. You just use the best tool for the job.
>	
Beaker
This general sentiment extends to the shadows. 
When UO needs work of a physical nature, they 
turn to orks and trolls. If they are looking for 
hacking or magic, well, the same groups may 
not get as much of a shot. You’ll find plenty of 
complaints about that in shadows, but within UO, 
you’ll find plenty of execs who don’t care.
>	
And if they’re hiring chemists, they won’t look for 
trolls, will they, Beaker? Because that’s just the way 
the world works.
>	
0rkCE0
>	
I can’t tell you how much I don’t need a lecture from 
someone else explaining how difficult it is to be me. I 
promise you that I am aware.
>	
Beaker
LONE STAR
POSTED BY: TELESCOPE
This one’s easy. Or at least, easy to describe, 
because things are clear on the surface, but the 
psychological underpinnings of the situation they 
create can get complicated. The boys in blue are 
thought to use orks and trolls for one purpose 
and one purpose only: their goon squad. Need a 
door kicked in, send a troll. Need a perp dragged 
out, send in the orks. With shiny badges on their 
chests, the trogs of Lone Star get the job done in 
the most meat-headed way possible. 
Inside Lone Star, trogs get pigeonholed. The 
corp needs bodies on the street, and these guys 
and gals can usually take the place of two to four 
smaller metas in any physical situation. The best 
and brightest can usually work their way up in rank 
to get a little power, but it’s always through the 
beat. Trogs aren’t born into positions at Lone Star, 
no matter who their parents were.
Trolls usually find themselves at the top of the 
list of candidates for the riot squad, with orks right 
under them. The truly brutish don’t move up much, 
but those with a little more upstairs get a chance 
to earn spots in SWAT, High Threat, anti-terror, and 
especially vice, where they end up going under-
cover in places no one else can. Among the brass, 
you’ll find a few trolls and orks. There’s a small 
bias to keep them smacking skulls together, but 
if they’ve got the brights and attitude, they can 
struggle up the corporate ladder.
>	
Going up the ladder for trogs is a lot more common after 
an injury, especially one that limits them on the street. 
>	
Stone
In the corporate offices, you won’t find the ap-
propriate percentage of trogs to match compa-
ny census data or racial distribution expectations 
based on Lone Star’s citizen percentages. The 
company line is something along the lines of  “Of 
course not—we’ve got more ork and troll officers 
than any other security corporation in the world,” 
but that doesn’t exactly cover why they don’t 
move up from the street. 
There’s a simple fact here: It’s due to racial 
prejudice.
Lone Star is not really a racially diverse 
megacorp. They use orks and trolls on the streets, 
elves in HR, and dwarfs in their tech departments. 
If there’s a stereotype to be had, you’ll find it at 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
86    WORKING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 88 =====
Lone Star. In their terms, they shoot straight and 
don’t worry about little things like people’s feel-
ings when it comes to running their corp and 
assigning people to positions. Socially or in the 
workplace, Lone Star doesn’t hold back. 
In other people’s terms, they have a lot of trou-
ble seeing past people’s size and shape, and they 
aren’t really interested in learning how to do it, so 
they frame their deficit as a straight-talking virtue.
One of the reasons they get away with this is 
that road goes both ways. Orks and trolls under 
the badge have no problem talking down to any-
one in their jurisdiction. They carry that concept of 
Texas swagger to a whole new level.
>	
Some of the elements discussed in connection with 
Ares, law enforcement, and trogs occur here, too, but 
they’re already stated in the Ares write-up, I won’t 
repeat them here.
>	
Sunshine
DOCWAGON
POSTED BY: BIGDOC
Most of DocWagon’s advertising is pretty wide-
ly targeted but strongly based on the clientele 
in the region, so views on their use of orks and 
trolls usually coincides perfectly with the views 
of the local population. Positive views often 
show a troll heroically crashing through walls or 
braving a hail of gunfire to rescue a client, while 
less-friendly locales replace that troll with a hu-
man in sleek armor. 
The image of the massive troll helping to haul 
several clients out of trouble at once has been an 
advertising staple in every region with a moderate 
or better view on trolls. It becomes a pretty stan-
dard idea in these areas that if you need help, you’ll 
get a big troll swooping in to save you. The truth of 
the matter inside DocWagon is a little different.
Sadly, trolls on the line are limited. Orks get 
more options, but not a lot more. Trolls are most 
common in ground-based High Threat Response 
(HTR) teams, where their additional mass doesn’t 
detract from the operational capabilities of their 
transport. Air units don’t have the lift capacity to 
sacrifice for a single troll who weighs as much as 
four geared-up humans. Orks are a little better; 
they don’t usually more than double a human’s 
mass, and they still bring some extra bulk to the 
team when it’s needed. 
It’s also a sad fact that most trolls and orks nev-
er got the background education or opportunity 
to be EMTs and paramedics. Sure, they can work 
toward it, but there are plenty of hurdles in their 
way, including pushy recruitment toward the Re-
sponse side of things and a bunch of external cul-
tural racism around the headquarters in Atlanta. 
DocWagon has been supportive of Atlanta’s ork 
and troll population out in Sweetwater, but that’s 
a corporate-level choice. It doesn’t make a lot of 
locally based citizens happy.
Moving up in DocWagon is also quite a bitch. 
The Atlanta culture doesn’t permeate every office, 
but the Atlanta HQ team does a lot of microman-
aging, so they have heavy pull when it comes to 
promotions. Orks make the executive cut more of-
ten than trolls, but neither of them are represented 
in the numbers one should expect if all things in 
the corp were equal. This shouldn’t really be a sur-
prise, because no one who lives in the real world 
expects them to be.
>	
I’m about out of patience with the “racism is just the way 
of the world” argument.
>	
0rkCE0
There can (and have) been detailed analyses 
of how ork and troll hiring practices serve to keep 
them out of high-ranking positions. There are sim-
ple things (people reacting negatively to Or’zet 
names, people justifying not hiring or advancing 
trolls because they don’t have the proper facilities) 
and more complicated things (the way socializing 
contributes to promotions and how people in a 
corporate environment choose who they social-
ize with) that help show that the way DocWagon 
works is not because someone passed around a 
memo saying “Don’t hire or promote orks or trolls.” 
It’s more complicated than that, which also means 
any eventual fix is more complicated. Deeply in-
grained attitudes don’t just switch off.
TELESTRIAN
POSTED BY: TELTELLER
I wrote a little starter comment up here that said, 
“Snooty elves put everyone in their place. Trolls 
are their favorite meatshields.” This was my best 
street view in a nutshell. 
The nice thing about the elves at Telestrian is 
that they have no desire to sugarcoat anything. 
Trolls and orks are groomed from an early age for 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WORKING AS A TROG IN...    87


===== PAGE 94 =====
Government jobs are a curious thing in the Sixth 
World. The pay at the lower levels is better than a 
lot of entry-level corp jobs, and jobs often come 
with DocWagon Basic coverage (though some 
cost-sharing is usually involved). Advancement, 
though, is a bitch. Supervisory positions are often 
in short supply—government tries to stretch its 
funding as far as possible, and that often means 
very lean staffs, and mid-level supervisors are the 
first cuts made. Plus, once you get to a certain 
level, it’s elections and politics that determine who 
gets what position, and playing that game is not 
something everyone is cut out to do. End result: 
There are a fairly high levels of orks and trolls at 
lower levels of government, but the numbers thin 
as you go up the ranks.
The strange part of the world of the 
government worker comes when they are trying 
to do the things workers are supposed to do. 
Sometimes it’s straightforward—pave this, file 
that—but other times there is an ostensible 
amount of authority the workers are supposed 
to be exercising, when of course they are not the 
ultimate powers in the world. Sometimes their 
lack of power is clear—you set foot on megacorp 
territory, and your authority ends. Other times, 
though, things are a little murkier, which tends 
to be demoralizing for the government workers. 
They may be repairing pipes, or surveying 
property, or attempting some form of inspection, 
when someone with a suit gently tells them that 
the particular service they were attempting is not 
required. Or wanted. Maybe some of the new 
ones put up a little fight, citing the instructions 
they were given or the part of the law they’re 
obeying, but the people in the suits know how to 
make it clear that it would be best if they simply 
went away and did something else.
The point is, government workers have to get 
used to being over-ruled, and that goes double 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WORKING AS A TROG IN...    93


===== PAGE 95 =====
for lower-level employees. The uncaring, slothful 
government worker is a longstanding cliché 
with some truth behind it, but you understand 
that cliché better when you see how much time 
the workers spend being thwarted. They act like 
people who have been repeatedly shown that 
their efforts don’t matter, because that’s pretty 
much the case.
This means you have a lot of orks and trolls 
in government making some decent money but 
having their will to live slowly drained out of them. 
Go to them. Make friends. Give them something 
to care about. You never know what kind of access 
they might be able to introduce you to.
>	
Remember that, by and large, government security sucks. 
That includes cyber and physical security. Don’t get too 
cocky—when it’s important, they’ll contract out, or GOD 
will volunteer to keep an extra close eye on things because 
it’s sometimes easier for them to act in a preventative way 
than to mount an effort to fix the damage after someone 
makes a big score in a government host. So yeah, 
sometimes there’s a rude surprise waiting for you, but 
a lot of time the mid- to lower-level stuff is pretty much 
protected by thin chains and padlocks. Make a friend of a 
government employee, and this stuff can be yours for the 
taking. You just have to figure out how to find something 
at these levels that’s worth something.
>	
Mika
BILOXI TECHNICAL 
INSTITUTE
POSTED BY: COSMO
Building a prestigious university isn’t easy. Look 
at the lists of best universities in the world some-
time, then look for any institutions than are 
younger than a century and a half. You’ll have to 
move down the list for a while to find one. Why 
is that? Because a significant part of college rank-
ings is based on the reputation of the universi-
ty. This shows up in a number of ways—the more 
people who want to go to a university, the more 
they can reject, and the better the academic ré-
sumés of those accepted will be. That shows up 
in the rankings. The more notable research that 
comes from a university, the more the graduates 
accomplish, the more intriguing the faculty, the 
more the university’s reputation will grow. That, 
too, shows up in rankings. And then there’s mon-
ey. Harvard has an endowment of more than fifty 
billion nuyen. Oxford has a relatively paltry seven 
billion. On top of that, major universities rake in 
hundreds of millions in alumni donations annual-
ly. You just don’t build pots of money and pools 
of donors like that overnight, which means that 
competing with established universities on the 
playing fields they built decades or centuries ago 
is extremely difficult.
When you see an up-and-coming university, 
what you are often seeing is an existing 
organization in the middle of a transformation. 
There may be an endowment and a donor base, 
but someone or something is stepping in to 
transform the institution and take it to a new level. 
As an example, take George Ellery Hale, who 
joined the board of Throop Polytechnic Institute 
in 1907 with a vision of transforming it into a 
science and research institution. He brought a 
gifted fundraiser in as president, helped wrangle 
some private money, and convinced the state 
to increase the college’s budget by ten times all 
by itself. He brought in great minds, including 
a physicist who won the school its first Nobel 
Prize in 1923. By this time the school had a new 
name: the California Institute of Technology. It 
also had piles of new money, including a big gift 
that helped lure that Nobel-Prize-winner over. 
In terms of current-day nuyen, that gift was well 
into the eight figures. 
In some ways, the transformation took time. In 
other ways, it was startlingly fast, from little-known 
institution to one receiving millions in public and 
private funds and the most prestigious awards in 
science in just over a decade and a half.
In Biloxi, Mississippi, CAS, a dwarf named 
Hearst Pineyard aims to beat that record. He’s 
not chosen an easy path—while Hale joined an 
institution with at least some academic integrity, 
Pineyard is building his dream on the bones of an 
institution known far more for fleecing students 
and handing out worthless diplomas than doing 
anything 
academically 
worthwhile. 
But 
the 
institution he purchased had a few advantages: an 
existing system for processing student loans, a few 
faculty members who might be worth salvaging, 
and a location that was near the highway and 
surrounded by a lot of developable land. Pineyard 
also had another advantage working for him: a 
huge pile of cash.
>	
The origin of Pineyard’s fortune is a subject of continued 
debate. Back in the last century, individuals could make 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
94    WORKING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 96 =====
a fortune by coming up with some hot new product or 
computer program, but in our century, patent law—and 
almost every other type of law—greatly favors the corps, 
so it’s difficult for an individual to pile up money outside 
of a corp. So that has left Pineyard open to all sorts of 
speculation about where his money came from. Some 
popular theories include that Pineyard was the head of 
a vast smuggling network, or a talislegger who struck a 
huge deposit of orichalcum, or the recipient of one of the 
larger mystery bequests from Dunkelzahn’s will (such as 
the twenty million for developing a smog-cleaning plant 
or eight million for breeding Ecuadorian honey ants). 
Most of the speculation does not account for how much 
wealth he truly has, since his activities in Biloxi could only 
be supported by a fortune that rises to the billions.
>	
Mr. Bonds
Pineyard not only bought the college, which 
was a large building in a strip mall, but also some 
nearby stores, a junkyard, a tiny private airstrip, 
and other assorted properties. From this, he built 
a university, which he called the Biloxi Technical 
Institute. Then he set about two goals: Making 
the university prestigious, and making it serve 
primarily metas, especially dwarfs.
The second part was easier, but with a 
complication. The combination of being a private 
university and making the right political donations 
gave him the chance to do just about anything he 
wanted. The complication is that while there were 
plenty of applicants, a large number of them didn’t 
have the means to pay for the type of education 
Pineyard envisioned, so he needed a large supply 
of scholarships or other financial aid. In modern 
education, that means corporate support.
This is where you run into a chicken-and-egg 
problem—corps don’t want to give you money until 
they know you can generate the type of recruits 
they need, but it’s really difficult to generate 
the proper results without adequate corporate 
funding. Pineyard got through this by betting on 
himself. For four years—four years!—he funded 
a large portion of the university’s operations out 
of his own pocket. Yeah, he had some money 
coming through in various financial aid packages 
and outside scholarships, and some students 
ponied up at least a share of their own tuition, 
but Pineyard was still on the hook for hundreds 
of millions of nuyen per year. After four years, his 
out-of-pocket expenses, including his property 
purchases and capital development spending, had 
to be well north of one billion nuyen.
>	
That’s insane. It’s a nonprofit university, so it’s not like he’ll 
ever be able to pocket the profits once outside support 
starts rolling in. That money is gone. What’s his angle?
>	
Haze
>	
It couldn’t be as simple as figuring he had more than 
enough for himself, so he thought he’d use the rest to do 
something good, could it?
>	
Old Crow
>	
Yeah, that’s the sort of thing that’s so simple that it never 
actually happens in the real world. So no, it couldn’t.
>	
Haze
>	
A few things. While Pineyard can’t pocket profits, you 
can bet that once the university is self-sustainable, he’ll 
be collecting some income from it, probably in the six 
figures. Which is nice, though of course if he makes 
250,000 nuyen per year, it would still take him four 
thousand years to recoup one billion nuyen. So yes, in 
that respect he would have been better off just holding on 
to his money. But if BTI fulfills his vision, Pineyard could 
play a huge role in shaping the future.
Consider this: Universities were critical in the 
development of the Internet, which became the Matrix. A 
University of Manchester researcher developed the critical 
components of oral contraceptives. The Dumas Test to 
discern the existence of magical abilities in individuals 
was developed at a university. And that’s just a small 
sample of how universities have launched efforts that 
affected wide swathes of society. Universities have the 
chance to change the world without the slavish devotion 
to profits that corps face. Whatever else we know about 
Pineyard, he clearly gets off on science. Where better to 
do exactly the kind of work he wants than in a university 
of his creation? He’s not just funding an education for 
students—he’s developing a location that will provide the 
time and equipment to do the research of his dreams, 
surrounded by a gifted team of researchers and faculty. 
How is this a mysterious goal?
>	
Beaker
>	
Not all of us are nerds.
>	
Kane
For the first few years, BTI flew under the 
radar, mainly because it wasn’t asking much of 
anything from anyone. They recruited a bunch of 
students (only to reject most of them—gotta get 
your reputation for selectivity started as soon as 
possible) and hired some up-and-coming teachers 
and researchers, but those sorts of efforts don’t 
make many waves in the larger world. Now, 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WORKING AS A TROG IN...    95


===== PAGE 97 =====
though, the first group of students is entering their 
senior year, so placement work is moving ahead in 
earnest. A few corps have already had their eye on 
the university, especially Renraku, who is always 
looking for more ways to establish technological 
capacity in the CAS. 
>	
Ares has been playing close attention as well. Things 
have been very unpleasant for them at the home office in 
Detroit, so they’ve been looking at other places where they 
can build up power. If BTI can live up to Pineyard’s hype, 
Ares (or any other corp that partners with the university) 
has the chance to get on the ground floor of a brand-new 
pipeline of top tech talent. Ares could use a boost of that 
nature. Or any nature.
>	
Dr. Spin 
All of this is to set up this central point: There 
is a trog-friendly university in the CAS looking to 
be a major player in tech education. Everything 
and anything is available in ork and troll size—
dorm 
rooms, 
lab 
equipment, 
intra-campus 
transportation, and so on. The university doesn’t 
just accept trogs; it welcomes them. If you don’t 
know the difference, you’re not a trog.
It’s too early to tell if BTI will be a major player 
for a long time or if it will come to nothing, wasting 
a ton of Pineyard’s money for no long-term gain. 
The amount Pineyard is investing, though, shows 
he’s not going to let it go easily. So if you’re a 
trog who thinks they have the right skills, find an 
application and enjoy connecting to an institution 
looking for someone just like you.
>	
Pineyard has scored some significant victories, especially 
when it comes to pilfering NeoNET staff. Esmeralda 
Colon, former VP of electronic engineering at Celedyr’s 
Albuquerque facility, now teaches at BTI, as does former 
Transys-Neuronet biotechnician Vijay Pawar. Having a 
Technocrat government in charge of the CAS doesn’t hurt, 
and Pineyard is making some significant inroads with 
government officials. I don’t want to make any definitive 
statements about where BTI will end up in the long term, 
but I suspect outside funding will jump up in the next few 
years, so it will be a force worth watching. Then we’ll see 
what the competition wants to do about it.
>	
Beaker
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
96    WORKING AS A TROG IN... >>


===== PAGE 98 =====
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< WORKING AS A TROG IN...    97


===== PAGE 119 =====
THE FACE OF JUSTICE
There are two Timmons organizations: the foun-
dation and the fund. The foundation is the um-
brella organization, and the fund is a private pro-
gram within the foundation that is responsible for 
most of the charitable giving done by the organi-
zation. There is a complicated web of funds and 
entities operating under the foundation umbrella 
that are used by Penchyk’s and Dunkelzahn’s sup-
porters to advance equality and prosperity. These 
include the Haeffner Family Fund, Houston Fund, 
Empowerment Fund, and the Samantha Villiers 
Memorial Fund. The foundation is responsible 
for more overt marketing and program activities 
that Penchyk is willing to make public, while the 
funds—the Timmons Fund in particular—are used 
to support outside programs directly and dis-
creetly. The foundation is also responsible for the 
political outreach and advocacy to comply with 
international campaign and charity laws. 
At present, virtually all Timmons Fund activity 
falls into four tracks: Equality, Economic Justice, 
Immigration, and Religious Engagement.
EQUALITY
The primary purpose of the foundation and fund 
is to promote equality for all people. This was the 
exclusive focus of the fund for years, but as its 
scope and views have expanded, the mission to 
promote equality remains firm. There is no short-
age of need, and beyond providing financial aid 
to Mothers of Metahumans, NAAAP, ORC, and 
others, the fund is also able to provide in-kind 
support by subsidizing or contracting out re-
sources to assist these groups on specific proj-
ects, especially where multiple groups are col-
laborating or focused on shared goals. The fund 
channels considerable amounts of money toward 
marketing and media to enrich Charisma Associ-
ates, Spinrad Media, EarthWyrm Media, and Ares 
to name a few. 
One of the great tensions that Penchyk and 
the fund constantly struggle with is whether to 
promote inclusion and integration or to promote 
self-selecting/self-segregated community devel-
opment where metahumans enjoy popular ma-
jorities at the expense of being removed from 
communities with larger human populations. 
This reflects the tensions that have long stressed 
movements seeking equality for groups based 
on discrete, and generally inalienable, traits such 
as ethnicity, national origin, or religious creed. In 
fact, the great irony is that this has led to instances 
of conflict within the fund and the foundation as 
programs that encourage prosperity tend to focus 
on these distinct metahuman communities, while 
equality programs stress inclusion by humans and 
integration of metahumans and the Awakened 
into mundane, human communities. It’s hard to 
imagine the fund ever not promoting the Black 
Ork Defence Collective in the Merseysprawl or 
Seattle’s Ork Underground, but those same pro-
motions have been criticized for facilitating the 
dilution of trog communities and power through 
isolation or racial gentrification.
>	
This is the point where a lot of do-gooders founder, 
because so many things can sound good. At some point, 
you have to buckle down and decide what it is you truly 
want, then go after it.
>	
Kay St. Irregular
PROSPERITY
Anne Penchyk has always been an econom-
ic progressive and supports engagement with 
economically distressed and underserved com-
munities, which tend to be but are not exclu-
sively metahuman or composed of metahuman 
majorities. Prosperity can come in many forms, 
and the fund contributes to causes that seek to 
wage and compensation equality, organizing 
and labor rights, community investments and 
public-private collaborations, and environmental 
justice. The premise behind this is that metahu-
man prosperity is inexorably linked to the health 
of our communities and planet, and that having 
financial resources isn’t enough if those resourc-
es simply allow people to survive and not leave 
a lasting legacy. Indeed, the sales pitch behind 
the fund’s environmental justice campaigns has 
been to argue that wealth within metahuman and 
Awakened communities is more than money—it 
continues to a lasting ecosphere of coexistence 
and well-being. 
The single largest recipient of fund contribu-
tions goes to Sierra, Inc., which is still run by Gary 
Grey. Like Penchyk, Grey is reaching the twilight 
of his life and focusing on his legacy. Sierra, WWF 
(financed heavily by Masaru, who is Penchyk’s big-
gest supporter of the Draco Foundation trustees), 
Save Our Seas, and corporations like the Genesis 
Consortium (through KAM, another DF trustee), 
Izolo, Inc., Telestrian, and others have reciprocal 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
118    TROG HEROES >>


===== PAGE 120 =====
financing deals with the Timmons Fund to pro-
mote economic and environmental well-being 
and counter ongoing destruction of heavily meta-
human and Awakened communities that are often 
used as literal dumping grounds for harmful pol-
lutants and used for destructive practices by cor-
porations because those communities otherwise 
have little or no economic or political capabilities 
to protect themselves.
The Timmons Fund has also financed and 
supported efforts by Balaji Padiyar and others 
to expand and develop an international Green 
and Awakened bloc of nations, extraterritorial 
megacorporations, and major NGOs that seek to 
promote these values for the benefit of their peo-
ple and toward all metahumans worldwide. These 
activities include promoting economic and politi-
cal policies internally and within international bod-
ies such as the UN General Assembly, the NEEC 
Social Policy Commission and various implemen-
tation committees, and working groups and task 
forces within the Pacific Prosperity Group and the 
Philike Hetairia (a.k.a., the Black Sea Friendship As-
sociation). This also overlaps with the fund’s immi-
gration program.
IMMIGRATION
While the fund and many other programs with-
in the foundation promote equality and pros-
perity within communities, it hasn’t been lost on 
Penchyk and others that immigration and the free 
movement of metahumans is both an economic 
necessity and a motivation for metahumans and 
metasapients who are seeking opportunities in 
new communities. Additionally, the fund has pro-
vided nuyen and support for refugee and inter-
nally displaced groups across the world.
One of the biggest direct recipients from the 
fund is the Catholic Ork Immigration Network, 
which works to help immigrants of all metatypes. 
Among the figures running COIN are Samuel 
Lamptey, Sr., the retired Seattle Seahawk play-
er who hails from the Ivory Coast of Africa, and 
his son, Samuel Lamptey Jr., a rising star in the 
Republican Party and a junior congressman who 
represents Tacoma. The Lampteys are major pro-
ponents of freer immigration and cross-border 
travel as a means of regional economic growth, 
but they also recognize that immigration and cit-
izenship matters are of special concern for trolls 
and orks given historical and ongoing persecu-
tion of metahumans in numerous nations. COIN 
assists on both ends of the process, assisting 
emigration out of various countries (by legal and 
sometimes not-so legal methods) and with the 
legal and resettlement support on the receiving 
end. Interestingly enough, one of the nations 
COIN is most active in is Spain because of its 
symbolic value as a major nation-state with a his-
tory of internal discrimination as well as discrim-
ination against foreigners, but it also suffers from 
the stresses of NEEC requirements, along with 
the demands arising from the whims and needs 
of megacorporate labor.
RELIGIOUS ENGAGEMENT
The Timmons Fund is one of the largest private 
financiers to faith-based charities and outreach 
organizations, and this is a reflection of the fund’s 
namesake. Before he became Dunkelzahn’s 
translator, John Timmons was a divinity student. 
His greatest personal and public accomplishment 
was to reject the use of religion as a wedge be-
tween people, especially when used to pit those 
of faith against metahumanity and the Awakened. 
With the dramatic fall and rise and fluctuations 
within organized religion and faith-based insti-
tutions since the Awakening, the Timmons Fund 
has contributed nuyen to lay and evangelical reli-
gious groups focused on brining people together 
through faith. This is easily the most controversial 
track the fund engages in, and yet incredibly lu-
crative for the fund itself, thanks to contributors 
who see the value in this track.
The most obvious collaborator with the fund is 
the Roman Catholic Church, and the fund chose 
sides long ago to help assist the more progres-
sive branch that supported Pope John XXV and 
now Pope Sixtus VI. The fund has also, however, 
contributed to the Islamic Renaissance Move-
ment, and both have in turn engaged with vary-
ing success elements of the Islamic Unity Move-
ment and smaller groups, especially in South and 
Southeast Asia.
Some of the smaller recipients of support 
from the fund and allies of Penchyk’s include the 
many theurgic magical traditions that have grown 
into their own over the last fifteen years since the 
advent of the Unified Magical Theory. By financ-
ing or assisting these groups, the goal is to assist 
Awakened groups in normalizing thaumaturgy 
with mundane metahumans by showing that it is 
a common element that should be appreciated in-
stead of feared and hated.
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< TROG HEROES    119


===== PAGE 121 =====
Related to that is the reality that there are 
theocracies, magocracies, and combinations of 
the two that exist in effect, if not in fact. Penchyk 
has often found herself at odds with leaders of 
nations like Amazonia and the Tírs because she 
insists that persecution of the Awakened else-
where doesn’t justify repression of any metahu-
man. She has become intensely focused on the 
recent opening of relations with the leaders of 
Yakut, especially in the hope of ending its war 
with Russia, and also on the activities in Mon-
golia and the reign of the ork Bogd Khan, the 
“living Buddha,” his connection with Tibet, and 
all of China in between the two regions. 
SHADOW’S EDGE
With all this activity, it’s impossible to deny that 
Anne Penchyk’s actions bleed into the shad-
ows. Her successes are based around massive 
amounts of personal and economic capital and 
publicity, and the shadows are the perfect place 
for someone with a lot of money to advance a 
personal agenda. Her shadow activity becomes 
even more clear in light of how many enemies 
she and the fund have that tend to react to op-
position with violence. Publicly, Penchyk has al-
ways opposed physical violence and the uses of 
economic and social force in ways that stretch 
the boundaries of the law. To the extent she 
maintains that policy in private, Penchyk has of-
ten resorted to her allies and ties to the shad-
ows to disrupt and deter imminent violence and 
disturbances rather than to respond in kind—
whether it be against the Sons of Sauron or Ala-
mos 20,000.
Collecting information that can be used for 
publicity or for political or economic coercion, 
however, is fair game. Penchyk and the fund 
have had hands in financing shadow work ex-
posing politicians and corporate figures of 
being in the Human Nation or the groups af-
filiated with Alamos 20,000. Mothers of Meta-
humans gets considerable, deserved credit for 
its non-violent actions in toppling the Saito re-
gime in California, but it was aided in large part 
by intelligence and infrastructure financed by 
the fund to cripple or sever ties to allies who 
might have helped him counter Ares’s military 
engagements.
Finally, when necessary, Penchyk has shown 
zero hesitation in using the shadows for direct 
action to protect herself, her allies, and metahu-
mans in general. There are female-only gangs 
such as the Desolation Angels and the Shooters 
that have been called upon for protection or re-
prisal, and this has included instances of internal 
control within Penchyk’s and the fund’s spheres 
of influence. People who have betrayed Penchyk 
don’t tend to fare well. If they’re lucky, they only 
see themselves ruined financially or professional-
ly. While there has never been a direct connection 
between her and whoever is responsible for taking 
action, the message is clear that disloyalty is not 
an option.
OR’ZET GLOSSARY
Or’zet, the language of orks, has a strange his-
tory. As far as modern times goes, it starts with 
Dunkelzahn’s will, like so many weird things in 
the Sixth World. The dragon left an ork named 
Robert Page the Or’zet Codex, which Page used 
to develop—or rediscover, depending on who 
you talk to—the Or’zet language. The language 
then became a rallying point of ork society, a way 
for orks show their cultural pride. It also has the 
pleasant effect of being easier to pronounce than 
most Sixth World languages, since it is designed 
for mouths with tusks.
PRONUNCIATION GUIDE
b, d, f, g, h, j, k, l, m, n, p, r, s, t,  v, w, y, and 
z are all just like standard English. There are no 
consonant blends, so th is pronounced like t 
followed by h and sh is pronounced like s fol-
lowed by h.
c is pronounced like the sh in sheet or bash.
q is pronounced like the ch in cheese or scratch.
x is pronounced the ch in Bach or chutzpah.
‘ (the apostrophe) is like a k but all the way 
down your throat, like you’re gagging. This is the 
“letter” that makes Or’zet hard to speak if you’re 
not an ork or a troll; humans tend to vomit when 
they try to say it correctly. To pronounce this one 
yourself, either hawk like you’re about to cough up 
a hairball or just treat it like the glottal stop in kitten 
or button.
a, e, i, o, and u are pronounced the same way 
as in the words, hat trick mess no mud. If there are 
two vowels in a row, you say it a little longer, as in 
Japanese.
Most words have the accent on the first sylla-
ble, or on a double vowel if there is one.
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
120    TROG HEROES >>


===== PAGE 131 =====
metahuman body structure and mass variations” 
in their construction and design. All of this is por-
trayed as being for the safety of the orks and trolls, 
but it’s used to get them out—or not let them in. I’d 
love to claim that not everyone who follows these 
rules and laws are actively trying to keep out or 
push out trogs, but really they are. There are plenty 
of ways around the rule, the easiest being a grand-
father clause to allow operation outside those 
rules, but no one uses it or even tries. 
>	
That’s because looking into those options gets a giant 
bullseye painted on you. Hate groups come a knockin’, 
and the remodels they perform may not help the building 
much while also earning the owner a hefty hospital bill. 
>	
Balladeer
>	
Don’t blame it all on hate groups. A lot of runners use 
those outfits as scapegoats to cover their tracks. 
>	
Clockwork
>	
Not getting up to their bulldrek code is also no reason 
to keep out orks and trolls because of Sweetwater 
Construction. This troll-and-ork construction corp is small, 
but they operate cheap, especially when it comes to 
bringing buildings up to code. 
>	
Bull
>	
Which is because they steal most of their construction 
materials, and their guys have no problem working cheap 
in order to stick it to the mayor and her racist cronies.
>	
0rkCE0
This problem has a cure, and I don’t mean ev-
eryone moving out to Sweetwater, because that’s 
already a hot zone for trouble. The solution here is 
simple, but it needs some really complex and skilled 
help to get it done. Someone needs to dig up and 
reveal the mayor’s connections to the Human Na-
tion. We already have several Paladin facilities, all 
with political ties to Mayor Martin, around Atlanta, 
so you know she’s connected to their corrupt, me-
ta-hating hoops. But we know that’s not enough. 
We need some serious digging and surveil-
lance help from folks with top-notch skills. That’s 
part of the reason I agreed to do this little write-
up. Because I knew it would get out to folks with 
the skills needed and maybe with an inclination to 
take a shadowcation to Atlanta for some work. We 
have plenty of metahumanitarian philanthropists 
willing to fund this; we just need runners with the 
salt to pull it off.
>	
As a side point, those runners should probably be human. 
Makes it a lot easier to avoid being noticed around Mayor 
Martin. Her entourage isn’t very diverse and her security 
has no desire for diversity in her presence. 
>	
Bull
>	
Yeah, no. Ain’t no humans riding in to save the day. This 
is a trog cause, should be trog-led. I’m sure we’ll need to 
use some humans in certain roles, but most of us have 
long experience in knowing how to deal with people 
who hate us on sight. It’s our fight. We should be the 
ones to take it on.
>	
2XL
SAFE COMMUNITIES 
ORGANIZING 
PROJECT
POSTED BY: SUNSHINE
We’ve covered some of the obvious enemies so 
far—now it’s time to dig into something a little more 
subtle, an organization so skilled in using coded 
languages and dog whistles that many members 
don’t think the organization has anything to do with 
race at all. And they certainly don’t consider them-
selves to be racists. The Safe Communities Organiz-
ing Project—usually referred to as SCOPe—started 
as a community-based organization in Minneapo-
lis-St. Paul, and for the first decade or so of its ex-
istence, it remained a benign and fairly mild-man-
nered force in the MSP sprawl. Then, in 2071, Don 
Marco “Fat Cat” Catarone was finally taken out by 
one of his rivals—a tough-minded tusker named 
Sturk Elgin. Problem was, while Elgin had enough 
guts to take out Catarone, he didn’t have the skills 
to lead the mob the way Catarone had, and a lot of 
operations spiraled out of control. There were in-
surgencies left and right, competitors who were no 
longer scared of the mob, and all sorts of thievery, 
lying, and treachery. Elgin and his primary compet-
itors tried to regain control the only way they knew 
how—by smashing the heads of troublemakers. 
This rash of violence unsettled the residents of the 
city, and SCOPe rose up to take a more prominent 
voice in anti-violence efforts. Then two develop-
ments changed the organization forever—they re-
ceived a major, long-term grant from the Alliance 
Foundation, and the size of the grant made them 
bring in new leadership in the form of former Ares 
executive Brenda Corenweil.
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
130    TROG ENEMIES >>


===== PAGE 132 =====
>	
Not for nothing, but the Alliance Foundation’s endowment 
is managed by—drumroll—Brackhaven Investments.
>	
Cosmo
Cornweil saw this new investment as a ticket 
to bigger and better things, and word is she also 
made a direct connection between the violence 
in MSP and trogs, as it was an ork who started 
and then nurtured the unrest. She used the infu-
sion of cash to open new chapters, starting in the 
Midwest—Chicago, St. Louis, Milwaukee—then 
moving eastward to Cleveland, Pittsburgh, and 
Philadelphia. She simplified the organization’s 
core message to “Building Safety, Preserving Peo-
ple,” and focused on the concept of establishing 
safe neighborhoods one block at a time. In each 
city SCOPe worked in, they would find a starting 
point, of a few square blocks, take measures to 
enhance safety, then keep building outward from 
that starting point to make larger safe spots. The 
is a decently well-established playbook for this 
sort of thing—push owners of vacant properties to 
sell, use rotating loan funds to build and redevel-
op housing, encourage lots of outdoor activities 
by residents, that sort of thing—but observers in 
multiple cities noticed problematic elements to 
SCOPe’s implementation of some of these ideas. 
They often spoke about removing the “problem 
element” from neighborhoods, and while this 
mainly included those with criminal records, they 
would also work to evict some people who were 
far behind on rent payments to get more reliable 
tenants. Thing was, if you were human, dwarf, or 
elf, they often managed to look past rent indiscre-
tions. Trogs, on the other hand, received no for-
giveness.
Plus, SCOPe’s public comments and press re-
leases started using a whole lot more coded lan-
guage. “Criminal element” is one thing—everyone 
recognizes what that term is, and who wants that in 
their neighborhood? Besides us, I mean. But they 
started talking more about “keeping our neighbor-
hoods safe from those who lean toward crime,” or 
“criminals and potential criminals.” When pressed 
about that last term, they’ll talk about people with 
low income, poor educational options, and nega-
tive social pressures—that is, those whose profiles 
make them more likely to be involved in crime. But 
in practice, when used by SCOPe, it almost always 
refers to orks and trolls. Confront members of the 
organizations with this fact, and they’ll deny it, 
saying the term refers to anyone in those circum-
stances, and besides, so what if it covers a lot of 
orks and trolls? It’s not inherently negative. They 
just want to help these individuals improve their 
situation. Better neighborhoods with better social 
pressures mean fewer potential criminals, right? 
But then they’ll focus on a new block, look at re-
moving the potential criminal element, and a few 
more orks and trolls will find themselves out on 
their hoop, sometimes just for the crime of being 
short on cash while having tusks and/or horns.
So while they might not recognize what they 
are doing, and they certainly wouldn’t accept the 
label of “trog enemy,” SCOPe is an organization 
with a multi-million-nuyen budget who comes 
into neighborhoods and steadily removes the 
trogs from them. And they do it with a smile.
>	
Yeah, they’re almost unfailingly nice and polite, but with 
that tense smile you see sometimes, you know? They’ll 
chat you up and shake your hand, but all the while they are 
making sure they know where you are in relation to their 
children, and they’re gathering tension in their shoulders 
that they didn’t know was there until they abruptly slump 
those shoulders as you walk away.
>	
Snopes
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< TROG ENEMIES    131


===== PAGE 133 =====
POSTED BY: SUNSHINE
When I was asked to talk about and interview trolls 
and orks in the shadows, I couldn’t resist. Every-
one remembers the glamorous and pretty. Orks 
and trolls are anything but glamorous and pretty. 
Therefore, they’re often overlooked and forgotten. 
There are exceptions. Neil the Ork Barbarian 
was a big hit who made a fortune for several dif-
ferent actors over the years. In the shadows, it’s 
the same way. Everyone talks about the elves and 
dragons, because people who are powerful are 
revered and feared. The elegant speakers and the 
charismatic are remembered, while those in the 
trenches are often ignored. For this post, I want 
to focus on the orks and trolls who have made a 
name for themselves. And we’re going in-depth 
here, beyond the public information you can find 
anywhere. We’ll take a look at how they got where 
they are, so you really learn who they are and why 
they made it. However, for every person like Bull or 
Beaker who is well-known, or at least well-known 
in the shadows, there are several others who have 
risen above the masses, even if they haven’t got-
ten the same kind of attention yet. I’m going to do 
my part to overcome that injustice and get them 
the attention they deserve. Let’s start with some 
of the names you’ve likely at least heard before. I 
hope the information is helpful and insightful. 
2XL
The troll smuggler is more than just muscle and 
horns, though this is how he portrays himself until 
you get to know him. He is charming, talkative, 
and has a good sense of humor.
>	
2XL is talkative? I think you’ve been riding too much jazz, 
Sunshine.
>	
Netcat
>	
I spoke to several of his contacts and they say once you 
get to know him, he opens up. Hell, look at how much he’s 
posted here. Get him on something he cares about, and 
he’s full of information.
>	
Sunshine
When he breaks out the charm, he uses it to 
put people at ease and make them believe he has 
their best interests at heart. He’s a born leader. In 
talking with him, it became evident that he has an 
anti-human bias; however, he’s also  a smart busi-
nessman and realizes he can’t let this affect what 
he does. I don’t know if this attitude is the result 
of a specific event, or if years of being looked at 
as the big, dumb trog has made him feel that way. 
>	
Oh, good. Let’s open the door for amateur psychoanalysis. 
How about this: I have the same strain of tribalism that 
every sentient being ever has had, but like the better ones, 
I work to minimize it. Simple enough, right?
>	
2XL
2XL runs guns, drugs, or anything else that will 
turn a profit, with a focus on working throughout 
Western Europe. Last known to be living in Lis-
bon, Portugal, he maintains a network of contacts 
throughout Western Europe and the Mediterra-
nean.  Of course, it helps that he speaks most of 
the languages. 
CHARACTER STATS
Note that two sets of character stats are included for most 
characters in this session—one for Shadowrun, Fifth Edition, 
and one for Shadowrun: Anarchy.
THE COMPLETE TROG
TROG
RUNNERS
132    TROG RUNNERS >>


===== PAGE 139 =====
WILLIAM “BULL” 
MACCALLISTER
MALE ORK
BEAKER
Beaker’s one of the technical experts here on 
JackPoint. She was born in 2035 to two troll 
parents in Newark, New Jersey, still a sprawling 
metroplex of its own despite being just outside 
the corporate enclave of Manhattan. Her father 
worked as a janitor in an Ares office building, 
while her mother waited tables and did odd jobs 
to supplement their meager income. While they 
didn’t live in the slums or in poverty, the family 
struggled to make ends meet every month. The 
younger of two children, Beaker enjoyed tech-
nology and watched any trid documentaries she 
could find when the trid subscription was work-
ing. Her older brother, meanwhile, joined the Hal-
loweeners and was killed in a gang scuffle just af-
ter she turned twelve. Their mother, Jessica, never 
recovered from her grief over his death and died 
within the year. Jack, her father, swore to make 
sure his daughter got a better life. He worked 
to nurture her interest in technology, especially 
chemistry, and pushed her to do her best.
She graduated from high school in the top ten 
of her class. After she received several rejections 
and almost gave up hope, she was accepted to 
the University of Albany, where she graduated 
SR: ANARCHY STATS
S
A
W
L
C
EDG
6
4
4
6
5
5
Condition 
Monitor
12/10
Armor
9
Skills
Hacking 6 + L, Electronics 6 + L, Firearms 4 + A, Heavy 
Weapons 4 + A, Negotiation 5 + C, Bug Spirits (K)
Shadow Amps
Essence 5
Cyberdeck 4 (Matrix. May reroll 2 dice on matrix actions, 
Firewall +3, Matrix CM 12, run 2 programs at a time)
Hammer (Program. +2 dice to cybercombat)
Datajack and Headware (Cyberware. May access 
Matrix in full VR+1 die matrix actions, –1 Essence)
Track (Program. May reroll 2 dice on Matrix track 
actions)
Qualities
Codeslinger, Fame (Matrix), Allergy (Gold)
Gear
Commlink (Fairlight Caliban), fake SIN, GMC Bulldog [A 
12, D 16], medkit
Weapons
Ruger Super Warhawk [DV 6P, Close OK, Near –2, Far —]
Panther XXL Assault cannon [DV 12P, Close OK, Near OK, 
Far OK; at close and near range character can take 
damage, too, at GM discretion]
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
138    TROG RUNNERS >>


===== PAGE 140 =====
with a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry. 
Getting a job was about as difficult as getting into 
college—she applied unsuccessfully for a number 
of positions, eventually obtaining a job with Hen-
drick’s Demolitions, a company specializing in 
safely demolishing buildings. While there, Beaker 
learned about architecture as well as the demoli-
tions business. When her boss, Rob Hendrick, was 
shot by mobsters for falling behind in his protec-
tion payments, Beaker disappeared in the chaos 
and started working as a consultant. 
It was while consulting that she came to the 
attention of FastJack, who asked her to lend her 
chemistry and demolitions expertise to JackPoint. 
Soon after that, the mobster behind the killing of 
Rob Hendrick was executed after he lost several 
shipments of explosives and materials belonging 
to the Mob.
>	
For what it’s worth, I had nothing to do with the thug’s 
death. I didn’t like the way the Mob handled the whole 
thing, but I was early in my career, and I wasn’t about to 
make organized crime mad at me.
>	
Beaker
>	
That sounds prudent, even if the guy’s quick death seems 
like quite a coincidence.
>	
Dr. Spin
Beaker continues to work in the shadows as a 
consultant on matters of demolitions and architec-
ture, and has access to excellent inside contacts 
for plans that aren’t available to the public. She has 
the interesting position of having been one of the 
rare trolls in a scientific field, only to leave it for the 
shadows. Her journey through college and her job 
show some of the challenges trogs face, and the 
high hurdles they have to overcome. Despite this, 
Beaker is sometimes less vocal about trog-rights 
issues than some of her peers.
>	
I’m just careful about what I attribute to racism. Getting 
into college is hard. Getting a job is hard. And it’s harder 
when you have parents who didn’t go to college and can’t 
provide a lot of support. How much of the trouble I ran into 
was because I was a troll, and how much was because of 
economic or other circumstances? I’m not naïve—I know 
racism exists and it played a role in the whole process. But 
I don’t know how much of a role, and as a scientist, I’m 
wary of speaking definitively about unknowns.
>	
Beaker
BEAKER
FEMALE TROLL
SR5 STATS
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
6
3
5
6
5
6
4
3
6
4
Initiative
9 + 1D6
Condition Monitor
11/11
Limits
Physical 8, Mental 7, Social 6
Armor
12
Active Skills
Blades 4, Chemistry 8, Computer 5, Demolitions 9, 
Electronics 4, Etiquette 3, Industrial Mechanic 8, 
Perception 6, Pistols 4, Running 3
Knowledge Skills
Academia 4, Acids and Bases 7, Architecture 5, 
Chemical Manufacturers 6, Demolitions 5
Languages
English N (Cityspeak), Spanish 3
Qualities
Indomitable 3 (+3 Mental)
Gear
Armored jacket (w/ chemical protection 5), 4x 
detonator caps, explosive foam (Rating 20), fake SIN 
(Rating 5), Hermes Ikon, tag eraser
Weapons
Defiance EX Shocker [Taser, Acc 4, DV 9S(e), AP –5, 
SS, RC —, 4(m)]
BEAKER
FEMALE TROLL
SR: ANARCHY STATS
S
A
W
L
C
EDG
6
3
5
6
5
4
Condition 
Monitor
11/11
Armor
9
Skills
Hacking 4 + L, Chemistry (K), Negotiation 4 + C, 
Architecture (K), Demolitions (K)
Shadow Amps
Jack of All Trades (Social, reroll 1 die for any test you 
don’t have the skill)
Team Player (Social, freely gift your plot points or edge 
to another player)
Qualities
College Education, Lucky, Low Pain Tolerance
Gear
Explosives, fake SIN, Hermes Ikon
Weapons
Defiance EX Shocker [DV 6S, Close OK, Near –4, Far —]
SNOPES
Everyone’s favorite skeptic was kind enough to 
grant me a voice-only interview via the Matrix. 
I’ve downloaded the transcript here.
Sunshine: Thanks for agreeing to this interview. 
I know you value your privacy.
Snopes: Especially in recent years. The heat’s off 
enough that I can talk, and when I heard you were 
looking into me, I figured the best way to make 
sure you were accurate was to give you the data 
straight from the source. 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< TROG RUNNERS    139


===== PAGE 141 =====
>	
Or so you could provide the disinformation you wanted 
everyone to know.
>	
Dr. Spin
>	
I’ll grant that’s a viable motive for some, but come on. You 
know what I value. 
>	
Snopes
Besides, you agreed that if I felt a question was 
too personal, I could refuse to answer.
Sunshine: Hopefully we won’t run into that too 
much. So, why don’t you tell us about your child-
hood?
Snopes: I was the second-oldest of five boys, 
each of us a year apart. My mother is an absolute 
hero. We were hellions growing up. The oldest, 
Tommy, was quite the athlete until he lost his leg 
in a motorcycle accident. He could still hit and run 
just fine, but with cyberware he wasn’t eligible for 
organized sports. I was fascinated by the stories 
everyone talked about, like the one about old man 
Jones, so I looked into them to find out what was 
true and what was fabrication.
Sunshine: Who was old man Jones?
Snopes: He was the crotchety old ork on the 
fifth floor who was rumored to have been a cor-
porate hit man.
Sunshine: Was he?
Snopes: No, he wasn’t. I searched the Matrix 
and couldn’t find out anything on him.
Sunshine: How did you figure it out, then?
Snopes: I went up and talked to him, and even-
tually asked him outright. That was the day that I 
knew I wanted to search for the truth for a living. 
He told me he worked for Fuchi as a wageslave. 
When I asked why he didn’t set everyone straight, 
he told me it kept the kids in the complex from 
fucking with him, so why should he? I was the first 
one to have the guts to ring his bell in years. What 
was more important was that he encouraged me 
to find out about things for myself.
Sunshine: He pointed you down the path your 
life would take, then.
Snopes: Yep. He became more of a parent to 
me than my own parents, in a way. To keep food 
on the table, they both worked two jobs. You can’t 
imagine how much food five teenage ork boys eat 
in a week. He nourished my mind while they kept 
me and my brothers fed. When I was old enough, I 
moved out on my own and started working for the 
UCAS Enquirer.
Sunshine: You worked for that rag?
Snopes: I did. I made a decent wage and was 
able to send some money to my parents to help 
with my brothers. I learned how to really get to the 
truth of a story there. I think my editor hated me 
by the time I left. I debunked more stories than I 
published in the year I was there.
Sunshine: Where did you go from there?
Snopes: I started my own investigation service 
to look into the conspiracy theories, rumors, urban 
legends—the kinds of things people pass along all 
over the Matrix. When they’re true, we make sure 
they come to light. When they aren’t, we make 
sure that’s known, too.
Sunshine: So, the same thing you do here on 
JackPoint.
Snopes: Pretty much. We do other investiga-
tions too, and they help pay the bills and keep the 
agency afloat.
Sunshine: Do you want to plug your agency?
Snopes: Nope.
Sunshine: You mentioned the expense of feed-
ing a family of orks. What else about being an ork 
has shaped who you are?
Snopes: It’s contributed to my need to back up 
absolutely everything with evidence. I know that 
a lot of people have a disinclination to believe me 
just because of my tusks. So I make sure I have 
evidence. I make sure you have to believe me, be-
cause I’m always on the side with the evidence.
Sunshine: There are, of course, plenty of rumors 
and urban legends about orks and trolls, and no 
amount of debunking makes them go away. Why 
is that, and do you find that discouraging?
Snopes: The “why” is actually fairly simple—it’s 
one thing to gather evidence about an individu-
al and show what they did or didn’t do, but it’s a 
whole lot tougher to prove anything about an en-
tire group of people. Someone sees an ork or a 
troll acting in the way they think all orks and trolls 
do, and it serves to confirm their pre-existing bias. 
When you present numbers that say, no, your per-
sonal experience is actually prejudiced, they shut 
you out. Simple human nature—and metahuman 
nature, too.
As far as whether it gets discouraging—yeah. 
Of course it does. There are certain things it feels 
like I’ve debunked a thousand times, like the story 
about the Angel of the Night, a supposed elf who 
went around casting healing spells on orks and trolls 
during the Night of Rage until she collapsed and died 
from exhaustion. There is zero evidence that she ex-
isted, and most stories about her didn’t start being 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
140    TROG RUNNERS >>


===== PAGE 142 =====
told until about five years after the Night of Rage, but 
it’s a nice story about someone helping out across 
racial boundaries on one of the worst days in mod-
ern times, so people really want to believe it. I mean, 
I guess I can’t be too discouraged—the persistence 
of this story shows that people want to believe good 
things sometimes—but the fact that error can persist 
and spread faster than reliable fact is annoying. I’ve 
given up on the whole truth-spreading business at 
least a dozen times, but that usually only lasts a day 
or so, then I’m back in the saddle, because in the 
end, it’s what I do. If I don’t have faith in the value of 
the truth, I don’t have much at all.
SNOPES
MALE ORK
SR5 STATS
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
4
3
2 (3)
3
5
5
4
5
4.5
4
Initiative
7 + 2D6
Condition Monitor
10/11
Limits
Physical 5, Mental 7, Social 7
Armor
12
Active Skills
Clubs 4, Computer 8, Con 7, Cybercombat 3, Disguise 8, 
Diving 2, Electronic Warfare 5, Etiquette 8, Hacking 5, 
Hardware 5, Impersonation 5, Leadership 4, Locksmith 
6, Negotiation 6, Palming 7, Perception 8, Performance 
6, Pilot Ground Craft 6, Pistols 5, Sneaking 8
Knowledge Skills
Clandestine Organizations 5, Conspiracy Chats 5, 
Conspiracy Theories 5
Languages
English N, Spanish 3
Qualities
First Impression, Photographic Memory
Augmentations
Cyberears (Rating 4, w/ audio enhancement 3, 
balance augmenter, damper, select sound filter 6, 
sound link, spatial recognizer), fingertip compartment, 
2 smuggling compartments, synaptic booster 1
Gear
armored jacket, chameleon suit, gold certified 
credstick, Hermes Chariot (5 4 4 2), Hermes Ikon
Weapons
Area Predator V [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5(7), DV 8P, AP –1, 
SA, RC —, 15(c), w/ regular ammo]
Extendable baton [Club, Acc 5, Reach 1, DV 5P, AP —]
SNOPES
MALE ORK
BUTCH
Butch is well known on JackPoint for her informa-
tion on medicine as it relates to the shadows. She 
weighs in on everything medical, such as clinics, 
street docs, and DocWagon, and lately she has 
become our resident CFD expert. I wasn’t able to 
catch up with her for an interview, but I tracked 
down some of her history, and have some im-
portant clarifications to make. 
She grew up in the Minneapolis metroplex, the 
youngest of three children of mid-level executives 
with Knight Errant. From a young age, she was fasci-
nated with medicine and how bodies vary based on 
metatype. She graduated near the top of her class 
from the University of Minnesota and did her intern-
ship at the downtown hospital. Before long, DocWag-
on approached her to work as a combat medic as 
part of a response team in exchange for paying off 
her loans. She enjoyed saving people, but she also re-
alized DocWagon cared for people only as much as 
they could pay. All that mattered to Butch was the sur-
vival rate of the people in her care. On more than one 
occasion, she was reprimanded for aiding non-cli-
ents. She felt that medical care should be available to 
everyone, and she followed through on that belief by 
volunteering at a local clinic in her spare time. 
>	
Her feelings on this have deep roots—her older sister died 
shortly after a car crash because she didn’t have coverage, 
and the medical team that arrived did nothing for her.
>	
Sounder
After she had put in the required time with 
DocWagon, she quit to join the clinic she’d been 
volunteering at, now on a full-time basis. 
To make ends meet, the clinic started doing 
black-market transplants and cyberware surgery. 
Whenever drug users came in, Butch did her best to 
convince them to give up the drugs and turn their life 
around. Still, she never refused anyone treatment. 
She’d encourage them to live in a more healthy man-
ner, but she figured her first job was to make sure they 
survived long enough to make more choices in life. 
Recently, with the appearance of CFD, Butch 
has been presented with some serious moral di-
lemmas. While she wants to help these people, 
she realizes that in most cases they’re too far gone 
by the time they come into her care to be saved. 
The person before her is an infection, and not truly 
the person who came to her for cure. This conflicts 
with her belief that everyone deserves treatment 
no matter their situation. Because of this issue, 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< TROG RUNNERS    141
SR: ANARCHY STATS
S
A
W
L
C
EDG
3
3
5
5
5
4
Condition 
Monitor
10/11
Armor
10
Skills
Con 4 + C, Escape Artist 3 + A, Firearms 3 + A, Hacking 4 + 
L, Stealth 4 + A, Tracking 4 + L
Shadow Amps
Essence 4.5
Custom Lined Coat (Gear. 10 armor, –3 perception for 
items in the coat)
Cyberears (Cyberware. Can listen to conversations at 
both Close and Near ranges. May reroll 1 failed die 
on hearing-related tests. –1 Essence)
Synaptic Booster (Bioware. +1 action. –0.5 Essence)
Qualities
Hawkeye, Silver Tongue, Low Pain Tolerance
Gear
Hermes Ikon, medkit
Weapons
Ares Predator V [DV 6P, Close OK, Near –2, Far —]


===== PAGE 143 =====
she’s been working with several corporate part-
ners to find a way to truly cure them. So far, she 
has only found limited success.
>	
One of the corporations she’s working with is MCT. 
Everyone’s ready to crucify me for getting them test 
subjects, but she gets a pass for performing the actual 
experiments? Talk about hypocrisy.
>	
Clockwork
>	
She doesn’t call her patients freaks, or say the world would 
be better without them like you do about technomancers. 
It’s about the perspective, not the process.
>	
Netact
Butch has perhaps enjoyed some benefits of 
being an ork in her profession. It’s well-known that 
DocWagon likes to throw orks and trolls into their 
high-threat response teams, and those are the teams 
that tend to treat the most dire wounds in the most 
stressful circumstances. Her emergency skills were 
well honed in that situation, and her clinic experi-
ence means she knows how to deliver the best care 
possible with less than state-of-the-art equipment. 
And of course, she knows ork physiology quite well, 
so she’s aces in giving them trauma care. Her exper-
tise is slightly reduced when it comes to trolls, but 
she’s still better at trauma care for trolls than nine-
ty-nine percent of the medicos you’ll ever meet.
>	
You’re very kind, but I have no illusions about myself. My 
specialty is keeping people alive until the truly skilled—
and well-equipped—experts can provide the care they 
need. I’ve gotten better at the research side of the job, and 
I’ve developed some skills I never thought I would dive 
into, but I know how good the best in the world are at this 
work, and I know I’m not there.
>	
Butch
BUTCH
FEMALE ORK
BUTCH
FEMALE ORK
SR: ANARCHY STATS
S
A
W
L
C
EDG
4
5
6
5
4
4
Condition 
Monitor
10/11
Armor
9
Skills
Biotech 6 + L, Firearms 3 + A, Biology (K)
Shadow Amps
Essence 5.5
Cerebral Booster (Bioware. Reroll 1 die on logic based 
tests, –0.5 Essence)
I Know Everybody (Social. Gain [Charisma rating] 
contacts)
Qualities
Allergy (silver), Leader of the Pack
Gear
Hermes Ikon, medkit, stim patches, trauma patches
Weapons
Ares Predator V [DV 6P, Close OK, Near –2, Far —]
SOUNDER
I reached out to Sounder through some mutual 
contacts. When she told me she wasn’t interest-
ed in doing an interview, I investigated her back-
ground and history on my own. 
She grew up in Seattle, with the familiar story of 
an overworked mother trying to keep food on the 
table. At a very young age, Sounder started hang-
ing with the Crimson Crush and was soon on the 
streets with them. A natural driver, she became 
their wheelman of choice. Eventually, she moved 
on to running their drugs into Seattle from the Sal-
ish-Shidhe. These activities brought her to the at-
tention of the Yakuza, who recruited her. As she 
watched as the border patrols became tighter, she 
began smuggling through the Puget Sound, at first 
using speed boats and then bigger crafts. 
>	
And now a bitchin’ submarine that is one of the few things 
in the water that would make me nervous if I ever got on 
her bad side. So I make sure I don’t.
>	
Kane
These days, she’s slowly moved away from the 
Yakuza and is doing more independent work. This 
started after one of the operations went badly and 
she lost an eye.
>	
With the Yaks, if it isn’t a death sentence, it’s usually a 
part of a finger. What did she do that made them take an 
eye instead?
>	
Baka Dabora
>	
The guy was trying to slit her throat, and she didn’t quite 
get out of the way. She then fed him his knife. Or at least 
that’s the story I heard.
>	
Butch
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
142    TROG RUNNERS >>
SR5 STATS
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
5
5
4
4
6
5 (8)
4
4
5.2
4
Initiative
8 + 1D6
Condition Monitor
11/11
Limits
Physical 6, Mental 7(9), Social 7
Armor
12
Active Skills
Biotechnology 8, Chemistry 5, Computer 5, 
Cybertechnology 9, First Aid 9, Instruction 5, Medicine 
10, Palming 4, Pilot Ground Craft 3, Pistols 4
Knowledge Skills
Biology 5, Chemical Compounds 4, Disease Vectors 4, 
Medical Procedures 5, Psychology 7, Toxins 5
Languages
English N, Japanese 3 (Cityspeak +2)
Qualities
Addiction (Mild, Long haul), Allergy (Mild, Silver), 
Analytical Mind, Aptitude (Medicine)
Augmentations
Cerebral booster 3, math CPU, vision magnification 
Gear
Transys Avalon, medkit (rating 6), 3 tranq patches, 4 
trauma patches
Weapons
Ares Predator V [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5(7), DV 8P, AP –1, 
SA, RC —, 15(c), w/ regular ammo]


===== PAGE 144 =====
Though cyber replacements are commonly 
available, Sounder wears an eyepatch when the 
mood suits her. When asked, she says it helps with 
the nautical feel of her smuggling operation. 
>	
She has a cybereye, and she only wears the eyepatch 
when she’s trying to play the pirate. Or just feels like 
looking cool.
>	
Turbo Bunny
Despite her obvious affinity with pirates, she 
doesn’t perform piracy on the shipping in the 
Seattle area. Rather, she quietly moves her cus-
tomers’ goods up and down the Pacific coast. 
Despite the disagreement with the one Yakuza 
boss, she continues to move guns for them into 
and out of Seattle. She has numerous contacts in 
the San Francisco area of the California Free State 
and even has a couple of ships registered in the 
CFS. She has a lot of connections in the Seattle 
area and is an enduring figure in the club scene, 
though she favors the dark and moody spots 
over the hot and trendy ones. If you’re going to 
be one of the top smugglers in Seattle, you need 
to be able to make your way into Tír Tairngire, 
so Sounder has a few ways in. Not easy ones, 
though, because nothing about the Tír is easy. 
That means, of course, that it’ll cost you more to 
smuggle things across that border.
I was going to stop with the well-known people 
there and move on to some up-and-comers, but it 
was suggested I should include myself. So read on!
SOUNDER
FEMALE ORK
SR5 STATS
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
7 (8)
3
6 (9)
4
4
4
3
5
1.2
5
Initiative
9(12) + 1D6
Condition Monitor
12/10
Limits
Physical 7(9), Mental 5, Social 6
Armor
13
Active Skills
Blades 8, Con 8, Demolitions 4 ,Disguise 4, 
ElectronicsWarfare 6, Etiquette 8, Gunnery 7, 
Longarms 9, Nautical Mechanic 8, Navigation 9, 
Palming 6, Perception 7, Pilot Aircraft 4, Pilot Ground 
Craft 7, Pilot Watercraft 10, Sneaking 5, Survival 4, 
Throwing Weapons 5, Unarmed Combat 7
Knowledge Skills
Puget Sound (area) 7, Ocean Currents 6, Organized 
Crime 6, Northwest Yakuza Hierarchy, 7  Pacific 
Northwest 4, Smuggling Routes 7
Languages
English N, Japanese 6 (Cityspeak +2), Or’zet 5
Qualities
Distinctive Style (eye patch), High Pain Threshold 2, 
Quick Healer, Toughness
Augmentations
Bone lacing (plastic), control rig 3 (betaware), 
reaction enhancers 3, simrig, smartlink, voice 
modulator
Gear
Hermes Ikon, medkit (Rating 6), nautical mechanic 
shop
Vehicles
Ares Venture (Aircraft, Handl 5, Speed 7, Accel 4, Bod 
16, Armor 14, Pilot 4, Sensor 4, Seats 6)
Aztech Profit (Watercraft, Handl 2, Speed 2, Accel 1, 
Bod 14, Armor 22, Pilot 3, Sensor 2, Seats 10)
Echo Motors Metaway (Groundcraft, Handl 4/2, Speed 
4, Accel 1, Body 10, Armor 4, Pilot 1, Sensor 2, 
Seats 1)
Harley-Davidson Nightmare (Groundcraft, Handl 4/3, 
Speed 5, Accel 2, Body 8, Armor 8, Pilot 2, Sensor 
3, Seats 2)
MCT-Nissan Roto-Drone (Medium Drone, Handl 4, 
Speed 4, Accel 2, Bod 4, Armor 4, Pilot 3, Sensor 3)
Proteus A.G. “Krake” (Small Drone, Speed 3, Accel 4, 
Body 2, Armor 2, Pilot 4, Sensor 3, w/ 4 micro-
torpedoes [chemical, DV 6P, AP –4, 1m radius, w/ 
acid damage])
Weapons
Enfield AS-7 [shotgun, Acc 4(5), DV 11S(e), AP –1, SA/
BF, RC —, 24(d), w/stick and shock ammo]
Survival knife [Knife, Acc 5, Reach 0, DV 7P, AP –1,]
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< TROG RUNNERS    143


===== PAGE 145 =====
SOUNDER
FEMALE ORK
SR: ANARCHY STATS
S
A
W
L
C
EDG
4
3
4
4
5
5
Condition 
Monitor
10/10
Armor
9
Skills
Pilot (Ground) 3 + A, Pilot (Other) 5 + A, Con 4 + C, 
Firearms 3 + A, Negotiation 4 + C, Organized Crime (K)
Shadow Amps
Essence 3
Control Rig 3 (Cyberware. Control vehicle in VR, +1 die to 
vehicle actions, may reroll 3 dice, –2 Essence)
Smartlink (Cyberware. +1 die to firearms or heavy 
weapons. –1 Essence)
Qualities
Distinctive style (eye patch), Gearhead, Home Ground 
(Puget Sound)
Gear
Ares Venture (A 12, D 10), Aztech Profit (A 18, D 12), Echo 
Motors Metaway (A 3, D 8), Harley-Davidson Nightmare 
(A 6, D 6), Hermes Ikon, MCT-Nissan Roto-Drone (A 3, D 
3), Mechanic toolkit, medkit, Proteus A.G. “Krake” (A 2, D 
2), Survival kit
Weapons
Enfield AS-7 shotgun [DV 9P, Close OK, Near –2, Far —, 
at Close range can take -2 dice pool penalty to attack 
two targets]
Knife [DV 3P, Close OK, Near —, Far —]
SUNSHINE
I was born the second son of two mid-level execu-
tives of Novatech in Denver in 2052. It was a different 
time and town then. I wasn’t born with a silver spoon 
in my tusks, but I wasn’t born into poverty, either. My 
father was a rising star who broke through a lot of bar-
riers that had been in place up until then. I learned a 
lot from my father; for example, he taught me about 
office politics and how important reading people is. 
He didn’t always know I was listening—or even that I 
was there—when I absorbed some of these lessons. 
For example, once when I was five, I was hiding in the 
closet and overheard his negotiations with his new 
boss. As a mid-level exec, he was generally supposed 
to act grateful for having a job that was not complete-
ly horrible, and senior executives typically expected 
a lot of sucking up. But my father watched his boss 
carefully and saw that if he appeared as a total door-
mat, he would quickly lose any chance at gaining 
the woman’s respect. So he gently pushed back on 
an item or two, staying polite but letting her know he 
wasn’t just rolling over on everything. She became 
more engaged in the conversation as it went on, be-
cause she enjoyed exchanging ideas more than she 
would have liked giving orders. He read her correctly 
and met her on a level she would respond to. 
That didn’t mean he had found a permanent 
home. In 2058, he jumped ship for greener pas-
tures at Erika, or so he thought. 
Part of my ongoing education was that I learned 
that the megacorps are ruthless, and the people are 
just cogs in the machine. Everything is about the 
value you can currently offer—past contributions 
aren’t worth a thing. My mother was a Matrix spe-
cialist who lost her life during Crash 2.0. The cor-
poration gave my dad two days off and their con-
dolences. It wasn’t long after that when Novatech, 
Erika, and Transys Neuronet merged to form Neo-
NET. Suddenly, my father was working alongside 
people he’d left behind when he went to Erika. They 
all said there were no hard feelings, but I’d learned 
enough by then to know it wasn’t true. My older 
brother followed in my father’s footsteps and joined 
NeoNET. I was top of my class, and everyone ex-
pected I would soon be joining them as well. 
Instead, I walked away and joined the shadows 
as a deep-cover operative. I got out on time—my 
father was unceremoniously fired a year after my 
graduation, his people-skills no match for the of-
fice powers aligned against him. On the outside, 
I work the long con, finding out the dirt and in-
formation the corporations or companies want 
to keep hidden, then making sure those secrets 
come to light. FastJack saw the value of what I was 
doing and invited me here. Simple enough. 
Most recently, I’ve been working deep cover in-
side Horizon in Los Angeles. You saw some of what 
I learned back in the Twilight Horizon download, but I 
decided there was more to learn, so I continued find-
ing ways to work with the corp, especially as they 
worked to evolve the new version of the Consensus.
>	
Don’t tease us—what have you found out?
>	
Cosmo
>	
I don’t want to detract from the main subject here, but 
the main issue is figuring out when crowds are wise 
and when they’re not. Remember that while we may 
curse the corps until our faces turn blue, the Shiawase 
decision and other such matters never had a chance to be 
overturned because there wasn’t a popular movement to 
change them until it was far too late. Crowds didn’t have 
the wisdom to shoot that down as soon as they needed 
to, simply because crowds didn’t have the information 
they needed to evaluate the situation properly. So that’s 
what Consensus 2.0 is working on; not just taking the 
temperature of Horizon employees to help keep the corp 
on a steady path, but providing useful information and 
weighting responses based on the expected expertise of 
the responders. There is also a question about how quickly 
the Consensus can affect real-time decision making, and 
that’s still the subject of many heated discussions.
>	
Sunshine
So that’s my bio. What about my orkness? How 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
144    TROG RUNNERS >>


===== PAGE 147 =====
ganger who thought his muscle would be an asset. 
When asked what his name was, Qin made up 
an alias on the spot—Sledgehammer, because it 
sounded as tough as he wanted to be. Later, as 
it became apparent his talents ran more toward 
hacking than breaking heads, his assignments 
were adjusted, but the name stuck. His chief rival, 
another hacker named Bytespike, was confused 
by how he could do so well using such a junk 
commlink. It didn’t take long before Bytespike 
figured out Sledgehammer was a technomancer, 
and he tried to get a local runner he knew to pick 
him up for MCT. Instead, the runner recruited 
Sledgehammer, and the troll has been running 
the shadows ever since.
He and the team he runs with have slowly been 
making a name for themselves in the Confedera-
tion of American States. They specialize in data 
steals and infiltrations, though they will do what is 
needed to pay the bills. Sledgehammer researched 
the records and found out that his family never re-
ally looked for him when he disappeared. He hasn’t 
looked back since, and considers his teammates, 
the only ones who’ve ever accepted him for who 
he is, are more of a family than his real one. They’re 
based in New Orleans, but the interest in the Biloxi 
Institute of Technology has them venturing over 
there a fair amount in recent months.
>	
Don’t let the name fool you—this guy is far more finesse 
than brute force. He loves making sprites, especially to do 
some early forays or cause distractions before he goes in 
himself. He’ll never let the sprites do all the heavy lifting 
though—what fun is it being a hacker if you don’t, you 
know, actually hack?
>	
Pistons
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
146    TROG RUNNERS >>


===== PAGE 148 =====
QIN “SLEDGEHAMMER” XIO
MALE TROLL
SR5 STATS
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
R
6
3
3
5
5
5
4
2
6
2
6
Initiative
7 + 1D6
Condition Monitor
11/11
Limits
Physical 7, Mental 7, Social 5
Armor
12
Active Skills
Automatics 1, Compiling 7, Computer 5, Con 4, 
Cybercombat 3, Decompiling 4, First Aid 3, Forgery 4, 
Gymnastics 2, Hacking 6, Hardware 4, Locksmith 4, 
Negotiation 3, Pistols 3, Software 8, Unarmed Combat 3
Knowledge Skills
MCT Infrastructure 3, Matrix Hangouts 3, Matrix 
Protocols 3
Languages
Japanese N, English 3 (Cityspeak +2, Corp +2)
Qualities
Natural Hardening, Magic Resistance 2, Prejudice 
(Japanese, Biased), Social Stress
Gear
Armored jacket, electronics toolkit, Erika Elite, fake 
SIN (Rating 4), glasses (Capacity 2, w/ smartlink, vision 
magnification)
Complex Forms
Cleaner, Pulse Storm, Puppeteer, Resonance Spike, 
Resonance Veil, Static Bomb, Static Veil, Transcendent 
Grid, Tattletale
Registered Sprites
Crack Sprite (level 4, 3 tasks), Data Sprite (level 4, 2 
tasks), Fault Sprite (level 6, 3 tasks)
Weapons
Ares Predator V [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5(7), DV 8P, AP –1, 
SA, RC —, 15(c), w/ regular ammo]
QIN “SLEDGEHAMMER” XIO
MALE TROLL
SR: ANARCHY STATS
S
A
W
L
C
EDG
5
3
5
5
2
2
Condition 
Monitor
11/11
Armor
9
Skills
Electronics 5 + L, Firearms 2 + A, Hacking 7 + L, 
Negotiation 3 + C, Tasking 5 + L
Shadow Amps
Essence 6
Emerged
Cleaner (Technomancer. Erase last 3 Matrix actions 
from overwatch score)
Pulse Storm (Technomancer. Opponent –1 to roll per 
net hit)
Resonance Spike (Technomancer. Cybercombat Matrix 
damage = 8, Defense = Logic + Firewall)
Qualities
Natural Hardening, Toughness, Paranoia
Gear
Enhanced vision goggles, medkit
Weapons
Ares Predator V [DV 6P, Close OK, Near –2, Far —]
JANE “MACGYVER” TOMLIN
This ork was born in 2057 in Detroit, the daugh-
ter of Ares factory workers.  Watching her parents 
work long hours for barely enough to get by and 
feed their three children told Jane at an early age 
that she wanted something different in life. 
Her father told her that finding what she did 
well and excelling at it was the way to success, 
so Jane spent a lot of her adolescence looking for 
what she could do well. As she got older, she grew 
concerned as she tried new things and didn’t excel 
at any of them, though she found she could pick 
up anything and do it moderately well fairly quick-
ly. She began volunteering to help anyone who 
needed it so that she could get the experience of 
how to do all sorts of things. Before long, she took 
to the streets to learn the skills she couldn’t learn 
through her parents or their friends. 
Jane was still struggling to find her place when 
she was forced to pick a lock under pressure and did 
it faster than she ever had. It didn’t take her long to 
realize she did her best work when the stakes were 
highest. She began taking jobs, filling in with different 
runner groups since she could fill whatever role was 
needed. She saved nuyen to get some basic cyber-
ware modifications and has become a reliable runner 
who doesn’t specialize in anything but has a wide va-
riety of skills that are useful in most situations. 
Eventually, one of the out-of-town teams Jane 
worked with liked her well enough that they of-
fered her a permanent position. She moved to 
Atlanta, where the team was headquartered, and 
now works with them mainly in the CAS. Break-
ins and extractions are the team’s specialty, and 
stealth is their emphasis. If John Dickson Carr were 
still alive and writing locked-room mysteries, he’d 
be studying Macgyver’s team for inspiration.
>	
Copy that. Check this: Renraku has a weapons 
development facility in Atlanta, and like all such facilities, 
it’s a high-security, locked-down affair. There was an 
engineer there named Estee Jackson, and word got out 
that she was going to be the target of an extraction. 
Renraku was having none of that, so they relocated her 
to an apartment in the development site designed for 
the express purpose of keeping highly valued personnel 
isolated and safe. Cameras outside, cameras inside, no 
wireless systems, watcher spirits outside, spirits of air 
inside. Armed guards outside the door, and of course it’s 
in the middle of a whole Renraku facility. Jackson checks 
in for the night, cameras show her going to bed and not 
moving from that spot. The next morning guards go to 
wake her up and find that instead of Jackson in bed, its 
one of the materialized air spirits mimicking her form. 
The other spirit in the room has no knowledge of any 
switch between spirit and actual scientist, and cameras 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< TROG RUNNERS    147


===== PAGE 149 =====
show nothing happened during the night. And oh 
yeah—biometric scanning done as Jackson entered the 
apartment confirmed that it was her, in the flesh. I’d love 
to know the step-by-step process on that run.
>	
Hard Exit
JANE “MACGYVER” TOMLIN
FEMALE ORK
SR5 STATS
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
5
4
4(5)
4
4
4
4
3
5.2
5
Initiative
9 + 2D6
Condition Monitor
11/10
Limits
Physical 6, Mental 6, Social 6
Armor
12
Active Skills
Archery 2, Armorer 3, Automotive Mechanic 3, Blades 
4, Chemistry 4, Clubs 3, Computer 4, Con 6, Disguise 
4, Electronic Warfare 3, Escape Artist 4, Etiquette 4, 
Firearms skill group 4, First Aid 5, Forgery 2, Freefall 3, 
Gunnery 3, Gymnastics 5, Hardware 3, Heavy Weapons 
5, Intimidation 5, Locksmith 6, Medicine 2, Navigation 
2, Palming 5, Perception 6, Pilot Ground Craft 4, 
Pilot Watercraft 3, Software 2, Survival 3, Throwing 
Weapons 4, Unarmed Combat 5
Knowledge Skills
Biology 3
Languages
English N, Japanese 3, Spanish 2
Qualities
Photographic Memory, Quick Healer, SIN (UCAS)
Augmentations
Smartlink, synaptic booster 1, troll roarer
Gear
Erika Elite, armored jacket, 10 x security tags, 10 x 
stealth tags, AR gloves, bug scanner (Rating 4), area 
jammer (Rating 4), white noise generator (Rating 
6), climbing gear, Electronics kit, lockpicking kit, 
rappelling gloves, survival kit, 100m stealth rope, 3 x 
stim patches (Rating 4), 5 x tranq patches (Rating 10), 
5 trauma patches, first aid kit (Rating 6)
Weapons
Ares Predator V [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5(7), DV 8P, AP –1, 
SA, RC —, 15(c), w/ regular ammo]
Enfield AS-7 [Shotgun, Acc 4(5), DV 11S(e), AP –6, SA/
BF, RC —, 24(d), w/ Stick-n-Shock ammo]
Ares Alpha [assault rifle, Acc 5(7), DV 11P, AP –2, SA/
BF/FA, RC 2, 42 (c), w/ regular ammo]
Grenade launcher [Acc 4(6), DV 16P, AP –2, SS, RC 
—, 6(c), w/ high-explosive]
Katana [Sword, Acc 7, Reach 1, DV 7P, AP –3]
JANE “MACGYVER” TOMLIN
FEMALE ORK
SMILEY
This ork fixer is homegrown Seattle talent. He was 
born in the Redmond Barrens back around 2040. 
Both his parents were SINless, working whatever 
job they could find. The oldest of four children, he 
knew from a young age that life would only give 
him what he could take for himself. He left home 
just after his eighteenth birthday so his parents 
would have one less mouth to feed and bounced 
around the streets, barely scraping by until he 
found work as a bouncer at Infinity Club. It was 
here that he came to the attention of a fixer who 
was looking for new talent. The fixer connected 
him with a group of runners seeking some addi-
tional muscle. He proved himself a great addition 
and was soon a regular. As soon as he could, he 
took some of the money he made and moved his 
parents and siblings out of the Barrens and into a 
nicer neighborhood. 
Smiley knew there were people who would use 
his family as leverage against him. For this reason, 
he set up a blind account to pay for their apart-
ment and broke off contact with them. His team 
never made it big, but they made a good living. 
Unable to afford cyberware, he learned to rely on 
his strength. As he started to get older, he knew 
his strength and stamina would start to wane, and 
he also knew he couldn’t run forever. He didn’t 
have savings to retire, either. After some thinking 
he came to a solution: he leveraged his shadow 
connections and began working as a fixer.
To start out his new career, he went back to his 
old neighborhood in the Barrens to give back—or 
at least that was what he told them. In truth, he 
knew he could get a better cut from newer talent. 
He used his contacts to get these new runners 
jobs, and slowly got out of the business himself, 
determined to stop running before someone blew 
his brains out. Since the Infinity has become one of 
the top nightspots in Seattle, he uses his contacts 
there to recruit talent and get in with the Mr. John-
sons who frequent the club.
>	
He doesn’t go out of his way to favor trogs, but he also 
doesn’t discriminate against them. So if you’re new and 
looking for a fair shot, give him a buzz.
>	
Sounder
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
148    TROG RUNNERS >>
SR: ANARCHY STATS
S
A
W
L
C
EDG
4
4
4
4
3
5
Condition 
Monitor
10/10
Armor
9
Skills
Firearms 4 + A, Piloting (ground) 3 +A, Con 4 + C, Biotech 
4 + L, Negotiation 3 + C, Disguise 3 + C
Shadow Amps
Essence 6
More Where That Came From (Gear. 2 additional weapons)
Jack of All Trades (Other. Reroll 1 die for any test where 
you don’t have the skill)
Qualities
Silver Tongue, Toughness, SINer (UCAS)
Gear
Area jammer, RFID tags, survival kit
Weapons
Ares Predator V [DV 6P, Close OK, Near –2, Far —]
Enfield AS-7 shotgun [DV 9P, Close OK, Near –2, Far —, at 
close range can take –2 dice pool penalty in order to 
attack two targets]
Ares Alpha [DV 8P, Close OK, Near OK, Far –2]
Katana [DV 13P, Close OK, Near —, Far —]


===== PAGE 168 =====
was Baxter Ridley using his influence on the chem 
corp for the purposes of the Humanis Policlub. 
These attacks are far more common than Hughes 
would like, and his new DC-Expansion is looking 
into a way to counter this problem in the future.
>	
Baxter Ridley wasn’t working for the HP. He was working 
for the HN. Much worse, but also much less likely to be 
known by Sherman.
>	
Snopes
>	
That new DCE counter plan is to hire more runners 
and keep them on retainer for the corp. There are also 
rumors of another corporate acquisition. This time it’s 
SecuriTech Inc., out of Chicago. They’re listed as a small 
private security firm, but they’re really a runner stable. 
They’re currently the only reason Governor Presbitero is 
still sucking air, and that man has had hell thrown at him 
over the past few years while trying to help put Chicago 
back together.
>	
Mihoshi Oni
Southern Guard isn’t done growing, and it’s 
not planning to leave its foundation as an ork- and 
troll-only corp any time soon. The small international 
outfits that it has picked up are maintaining the status 
quo and going through training transfers in the CAS. 
For some it’s a rude awakening on the state of trog 
life in the CAS (which is far from being a metahuman 
haven). Their other expansion considerations are 
currently focused in three areas, all related to securi-
ty. They’re building up their internal force of Talented 
trogs while also looking into purchasing an existing 
arcane security firm, so they can start with a client 
base. They’ll likely sell off the contracts of any non-
trog employees and move their own people into 
place. Hughes already has a leader for the division 
targeted and being courted, a SURGEd ork by the 
name of Vice. He’s a Wise Warrior shaman currently 
working for Evo with a history in the shadows. While 
a move might be arranged, an extraction might be 
needed if Evo goes against the grain. Along with ar-
cane, SG is looking to separate out a Matrix security 
division as well. They currently use Big Tech, another 
Sweetwater outfit. They’ve considered a merger, but 
Big Tech wants to stay independent, and Hughes un-
derstands and respects that. Some employees may 
transfer over once they start up, but until then it’s all 
subcontracted. Lastly, Southern Guard is trying to 
grab an arms maker. They’ve courted a few, includ-
ing trying to legitimize Krime, but the two compa-
nies have very different business philosophies. This 
one is looking to be extremely tricky from a trog-
corp perspective. Existing companies have a lot of 
already-present and talented employees who they 
would have to let go or sell off if they wanted to stay 
all-trog. Option two here is to buy production facili-
ties and launch their own line, but in a market already 
saturated with knock-offs and name-brand loyalty, 
it’s a risky investment. 
>	
We’ve talked about Vice before. He’s a solid guy. That 
said, he’ll probably need extraction, not because Evo 
won’t let him, but because Evo will want to save face. It 
will be negotiated into the contract that a job is arranged 
to pull him out.
>	
Butch
>	
Seems Sherman is either feeding old intel or just not 
showing all the cards. SG already has an arms-production 
facility. They picked up a former Colt facility in Alabama 
that had been out of commission for several decades and 
gutted it to move all the manufacturing equipment to a 
warehouse in Sweetwater. They aren’t officially producing, 
but they’re certainly closer than Sherman states.
>	
Stone
>	
I think a little bonus commentary is necessary about what 
SG does in the shadows. Some comments will already be 
made, I’m sure, but I’m locking this as the end of the file. 
SG has a lot of former shadow assets in its stable. 
Trolls and orks that had to live SINless in places where 
only the strong survive have slowly been recruited 
through test runs to see how they operate. After the job, 
they get another invite for work, this time in Sweetwater. 
This one is a test of their coolness under pressure because 
Atlanta sucks for trogs. If they blow up, Sweetwater just 
lets them walk away. 
Not all of those runners go legit. Some are too hot, 
some just don’t want to, and SG has a use for all of them. 
Whether it’s ops against a rival security company to 
steal contracts or runs to gather intel for their Expansion 
Division, they use internal assets merged with hired teams. 
The jobs combine real operations with “interviews” to 
make connections with non-trog runners. Having friends 
in Sweetwater is a big deal around Atlanta and in other 
cities where they hold contracts. 
They use us for site testing as well. Jobs with 
inconsequential objectives that test the readiness of sites 
all over the world. It’s usually an onsite data grab with a 
bulldrek file that looks heavily encrypted. If your hacker 
breaks in, all they find is a bunch of trogporn. It’s like a 
double lesson on what not to do when grabbing data for 
Mr. Johnson.
All in all, they run a nice balance of shadowy gigs and 
regular business. 
>	
0rkCE0
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES    167


===== PAGE 169 =====
TROG ROCK 
RECORDING
POSTED BY: GREATWHITE
Whether it was labeled Trogtown Express, Dermal 
Deposit, or Sierra Nevada, you’ve heard Trog Rock 
Recording. These three, and dozens of other trog 
stars, are producing hits for this popular indie re-
cording label. Their target performers are small-
time ork and troll artists who they can groom for 
niche markets and then expand them into a wider 
fan base. The goal is to eventually get them no-
ticed around the world, all without selling out to 
a big production corp like Truman, Pathfinder, or 
Horizon, preventing another trog from falling to 
worldwide orxploitation or whatever kitschy term 
you want to use for orks and trolls who make lots 
of nuyen that is collected and spent by someone 
other than themselves. 
At the helm we have Bella Blackwood. Black-
wood found fame as the show opener for Orxanne 
during her “Orkestrated” tour, where the troll pop 
star captivated audiences with her vocal range and 
quirky instrumental word substitutions. It was like 
self-censorship, except the words were never cen-
sor-worthy. Orxanne signed her under her record 
label, but when the contract was up, Blackwood 
took her earnings and stepped away to start up 
TRR in Sweetwater. The departure was amicable, 
though time and success have created some un-
healthy competition between the two labels. Bella 
still records, and talk of a tour is all abuzz, but noth-
ing is confirmed. 
Leadership of the company will probably fall 
to Madison North, Bella’s studio manager, should 
she go on tour. North is another of TRR’s success 
stories, though an attempted extraction in ’76 
ended her performing career when a stray round 
shattered her thighbone. The event started her on 
a downward spiral, but Bella shifted her focus by 
keeping her busy during her recovery. North fell 
in love with managing the artists in the studio. The 
roughness of the uncut tracks appealed to her, and 
TRR has a thriving following for this ultra-pure mu-
sic, thanks to North.
Last, but certainly not least, of the executive tri-
umvirate at the top of TRR is Lancaster Blackwood, 
Bella’s husband and the company’s primary tal-
ent scout and booking agent. Lanky, as everyone 
calls him, is a giant. Literally. He’s a Norse troll. He 
and Bella met before she even made it big, and 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
168    UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES >>


===== PAGE 170 =====
Lancaster got the agent bug while working to get 
Bella the best contract possible. Now he bounces 
around the world, though primarily North Ameri-
ca, looking for talent and setting up gigs for exist-
ing artists. He’s got an ear for talent and a knack 
for finding them before other labels, as well as 
enough charm to convince them that TRR is the 
way to go when they have to make a choice. 
>	
There are tons of rumors about Lanky being a Mr. 
Johnson for TRR. I have trouble buying into them because 
he’s way too recognizable of a guy to do it with any level 
of discretion. 
>	
Fianchetto
>	
The pair make quite the spectacle at awards events and 
shows they attend. The height difference makes Bella look 
downright diminutive next to Lanky. I’ve seen her referred 
to as “cute” because of this, which is something you 
rarely hear about a troll.
>	
Sunshine
>	
The typical sleazy agent stories follow Lanky around and 
generate work for runners. Either he’s trying to silence 
them or someone else is trying to send a message to cut 
this drek out, because every artist who has cried foul has 
ended up disappearing.
>	
Traveler Jones
>	
While Bella and Wejoto Records parted on good terms, it 
didn’t extend to Lanky. As her agent and now a competing 
talent scout, they are in direct competition, and it’s often 
the opposite of friendly. His picture has ended up on the 
comms of many a runner.
>	
Fianchetto
As a record label, TRR is always looking for 
new artists along with venues for their current 
ones to play. Being a small, all-trog company, 
they have plenty of difficulties when it comes 
to locking down venues. Many fear the crowds 
their artists draw. Some don’t like the diminished 
door count and occupancies, because trolls 
count one for two, or even one for three, to-
ward those max numbers.  Others don’t expect 
trogs to bring in much money. None of them say 
that kind of racist drek in so many words, but 
it’s the truth behind the “unavailable” and “not 
our scene” answers that come out. TRR deals 
with this by being persistent. Networking and 
reconnecting after another venue has signed or 
just coming back for another look, sometimes 
with a sweeter deal, usually gets them the gigs 
they want. In most places the difference in 
drink price or quantity and a little jump in cover 
make up the money difference anyway. And as 
for the trouble that trogs bring, it’s no different 
than any other metatype—there are bad seeds 
in every bunch. 
>	
If by “persistent” they meant blackmail and threats, 
then they’re spot on. TRR pushes plenty of work into the 
shadows to put pressure on venues and their booking 
personnel so that their performers can get gigs. 
>	
Clockwork
>	
Yeah, every metatype has bad seeds, but the problem 
with troll bad seeds is that a bar fight can bring down a 
building. 
>	
Slamm-0!
Like any other label, TRR has trouble with art-
ists being extracted or targeted. Local security in 
many of the places they play is less than spectac-
ular, so TRR has a standing contract with Southern 
Guard, another Sweetwater trog corp, for person-
al-protection details on their artists. The guards 
are all trolls and orks, so they blend in with the bulk 
of the fan base when they need to, though most 
of the contracts bring in the classic dark-suit-and-
sunglasses types.
>	
It’s always a mix. The suit in the shades is a visual 
deterrent, but the hostile-action team is usually blending 
in with the crowd. 
>	
Mihoshi Oni
Wejoto is a rival, but Pathfinder and Truman are 
genuine corporate enemies. There is no love be-
tween these corps and TRR for good reason. TRR and 
Wejoto have been hoarding the troll and ork talent 
that Pathfinder and Truman have long been using to 
grab that growing chunk of the market. The upstarts 
are also pulling away the leverage the big boys have 
with their own ork and troll citizens. Without talent 
that looks like them, they don’t have near enough 
influence with that sector of the population. Most of 
it isn’t about the limited number they do have, but 
about the variety of artists they don’t have.  
The future of TRR is in staying independent, 
and it’s not going to be as easy as it sounds. The 
big boys aren’t keen on them hogging the talent 
and, from their perspective, this small corp won’t 
be hard to bring down. Self-defense is going to 
be high on TRR’s priorities in the near future, just 
as important as expansion. Along with extensive 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES    169


===== PAGE 171 =====
self-preservation efforts, TRR is looking to expand 
into other areas of artistic expression. Music in ev-
ery trog form is the current repertoire, but sim re-
cordings and trideo are up next, if Grig Brock and 
Elsha Forrest stopping in town for a visit is a clue. 
The pair have some of the hottest independent 
trid shows on the Matrix, and Elsha double-dips 
with a reality simshow about her real life. 
>	
TRR, and much of Sweetwater, uses the Fulton airport 
for flying in and out. It’s relatively private and run by 
another local corp. It’s also a smuggler’s dream, because 
the traffic is so heavy for such a little place. They are all 
a self-sufficient little enclave, but they need external intel 
resources to avoid stagnating. 
>	
Turbo Bunny
>	
They’ve gotten a lot of positive press from KrimeTime, 
despite the differing labels. There’s definitely a possibility 
of him moving over, but no way it’s going to go off without 
some shadow work. 
>	
Kat o’ Nine Tales
BIG TECH
POSTED BY: AX3M4N
While the trid trope of the glasses wearing, scraw-
ny troll decker is all the rage again, the truth is, it’s 
not absent from reality. Just because trolls are big 
and most people assume they’re dumb doesn’t 
make it true and it doesn’t stop them from going 
out and getting an education to go along with 
their considerable muscular bulk. The same goes 
for orks, but the joke just isn’t as funny with them 
for some reason. 
The offices of Big Tech are one giant punchline 
for both of these jokes. The employees don’t all 
wear glasses and they aren’t all scrawny, but every 
skilled technician at BT is an ork or a troll, just like 
all the other Sweetwater corps. The Matrix doesn’t 
know size anyway, so it doesn’t matter how much 
space you take up in the office—once you’re on-
line, you’re just another chunk of bandwidth. They 
cover every aspect of Matrix work, including a 
touch of security, but focus primarily on develop-
ing host sculpts and persona sculpts for well-fund-
ed clients. Some clients are fully aware of their 
all-trog nature; others just see the name and hire 
them for the things they do well. 
At the top of Big Tech is Bryan “Goldtusk” 
Hillen. He’s got a pretty typical education back-
ground but ended up setting up Big Tech after a 
hacking incident cost him his leg. His commlink 
was clipped on his thigh when a hacker bricked it. 
The link overloaded and, while the manufactur-
er took no blame and claimed such a thing was 
impossible, exploded. The injury took him out of 
school just before graduation, which cost him a 
corporate scholarship. The corp wanted repay-
ment and took everything he had leaving him 
to slide into the CAS general workforce and try 
to get by with one leg and no degree. The leg 
crippled his active work options; his lack of de-
gree crippled his deskjob choices. He did what 
he could to get by and ended up shuffled off to 
Sweetwater when he tried to move to Atlanta fol-
lowing a job. Inspired by the successes of others 
and willing to hire and teach new employees in 
order to get up and running, Goldtusk built the 
corp from a one-ork show to the near fifty trogs 
that currently work there. Most of them are in-
dependently educated, and this lack of a formal 
sense of restriction has allowed them to do some 
amazing work in the sculpting department with-
out bleeding a system dry of computing power. 
>	
Goldtusk has a serious vendetta against Erika. It was an 
Elite that popped on his thigh, and they balked at every 
suit to try to get him a replacement or anything for the 
accident. It got spun heavily during the latest Matrix 
remodel, and while Goldtusk’s name was never used, 
he doesn’t like his story benefitting any corps, especially 
NeoNET then and now Erika. 
>	
Icarus
>	
Big Tech supposedly played some part in making sure info 
leaked about NeoNET’s involvement in Boston and all this 
CFD garbage. Goldtusk, likely tasking his employees with 
a little practice work off the clock, was probably behind it.
>	
Snopes 
>	
The reason a lot of Big Tech programmers can be self-
educated and rock the system like they do is because 
they’re technomancers. It’s not everyone, but it’s enough 
of them to get the attention of some other interested 
parties. They often trade Southern Guard for security 
services, and the internal dorm is expanded more and 
more each month. 
>	
Netcat
>	
MCT would love to swoop in and snag up a ton of 
subjects, especially trogs that they feel have little more 
value than animals anyway. Plenty of testing stock for 
their experiments. 
>	
Baka Dabora
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
170    UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES >>


===== PAGE 174 =====
>	
The rewards of grateful seafarers are usually bupkis. 
If they save a random vessel, it’s because the ship has 
something they need, someone they want to connect 
with, or someone told them to do so quietly. They aren’t 
into anything for free. 
>	
Sounder
The corp is led by Admiral Thark. The rank’s 
not official, except within the company where ev-
eryone is given some sort of naval rank. He gets 
said rank because he is also a founder and current 
CEO of the corp. Thark came to Ork Brac as one 
of the earliest orks to hear the call. He brought 
four ships with him, and after several successful 
protection gigs for the island itself he used the 
gracious reward to refit his fleet and increase its 
size while setting up a legitimate business with 
the island’s government. 
They primarily operate GMC Riverines but 
have expanded with several Blohm & Voss Sea 
Commanders. The flagship, and HQ vessel, No 
Man’s Land, is an older-model Harland & Wolff 
Classique. Most of the craft have been tweaked 
by their individual captains, but they all have cer-
tain standards that must be maintained. The craft 
can look tough, but they can’t go out bristling 
with guns or burying themselves in armor plat-
ing. CPS likes to keep things friendly-looking and 
fast. They aren’t a toe-to-toe security company, 
but rather a duck and weave, hit ’em fast, hit ’em 
again sort of outfitters. 
>	
Their style hides something, though. Every ship has at 
least one or two really heavy-hitting arms on board. The 
kind of things that will one-punch a Tiburon. They save 
them just in case the forces they are dealing with focus on 
the target instead of their float like a butterfly, sting like a 
bee style. If their charge is in danger, they go straight for 
the jugular. 
>	
Rigger X
Each boat has its own captain who is in charge 
of executing assignments and occasionally taking 
on contracts on their own. Depending on the size 
of the ship, the crew on board ranges anywhere 
from six to twenty. Each ship has at least one elec-
tronic warfare specialist who focuses on the Matrix 
security of both their own vessels and their clients. 
Their numbers vary depending on the ratio of ships 
under protection to ships on the detail. The water 
is dangerous, and a simple malfunction can leave 
a crew stranded at sea and/or dead in the water. 
Along with the EWS, every ship has a lateral re-
source operator who handles the operation of all 
drones assigned to the vessel. These drone jockeys 
are some of the best in the Carib League, maybe 
even in the world, specializing in swarm operation. 
The last position to be found on every ship in the 
CPS fleet is the most iconic if you’ve ever seen the 
advert trids or any of the many Matrix-casts they’ve 
made of their operations: the master armsman. Hu-
morously referred to as Ma on every ship—though 
never to their face—the master armsman is the 
boat’s most skilled warrior. While the captain gives 
the orders, the master armsman takes the lead in 
executing them. The remaining crew are a mix of 
techs and security personnel, but every one of 
them is a skilled seaman, many having been mem-
bers of various navies around the world. Some of 
them are even former pirates turned legit by the 
opportunities offered by Ork Brac.
>	
The CPS crews have an interesting relationship with the 
pirate crews that call Ork Brac home. There is a standing 
agreement that any ship under CPS contract cannot be 
targeted by Ork Brac crews. As a gesture in kind, CPS 
doesn’t interfere with any Ork Brac pirate ops they might 
happen to run across.
>	
Rigger X
>	
It goes further than that. Ork Brac pirate crews have an 
actual contract with CPS. The security firm offers protection 
for pirate vessels while they are sailing between targets. 
They also offer recovery assistance for vessels that are 
damaged or sunk during an attempted attack. 
>	
Sounder
Right now, CPS is making big worldwide head-
lines with their long-term contract with the Sea Or-
biter IV. This science and survey vessel is currently 
performing studies all over the Caribbean for a vari-
ety of megacorps. The data held in their storage sys-
tems would be worth millions to rivals. Besides CPS 
on the job, the Sea Orbiter is constantly broadcasting 
to the Matrix. They host an educational series on sea 
life, ecology, and oceanography using real-world 
events to show the beauty and power of the sea. No 
one ever sees the real work they are doing here, but 
millions tune in to hopefully glean something from 
the background action as they watch. 
>	
The show offers kids a chance to sail on the ship as well. 
Over the course of each year, twelve kids get to spend a 
week on board the ship, one per month. They use a lottery 
system to select winners, but at least once the winner was 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES    173


===== PAGE 175 =====
rigged. A runner by the name of Kit used her youthful 
appearance (a result of a SURGE characteristic) to sneak 
on board with her “parents,” who were actually another 
pair of runners named Vixen and Silver. If it had been just 
Kit, she might have pulled it off, but the runners kept a 
little too close and blew their cover.
>	
/dev/grrl
Life isn’t all glitz and calm seas for CPS as a cor-
poration, either. Other major security and trans-
portation corps, like Knight Errant and Maersk, 
have them in their sights for acquisition or annihi-
lation. KE and their compatriots don’t like the com-
petition, and while CPS is small, they’re getting 
enough contracts to keep them busy and grow-
ing. Transport corps are a different story, though. 
There’s no real reason for them to not want CPS to 
succeed short of a desire to see piracy succeed. 
Within the company, Admiral Thark quite often 
speculates that most of the piracy in the Carib 
League is funded by the megacorps in order to 
move products from the regular market to the grey 
and black markets, and piracy against civilian ves-
sels is just an exploitation of security lapses for the 
rich out at sea. 
>	
Makes sense. It’s an ideal time to operate against them, 
and a small corp with a desire for a big rep can easily 
get in the way and make a bad situation much worse. 
>	
Rigger X
 
>	
Rumors are always present but not always accurate, so 
when people in the Carib League talk about CPS as a 
smuggling front, I listen but take it with a kilo of saltwater. 
They have a wide range of clients and operating locations 
and harbors, so the opportunity is there, but I can’t 
imagine Thark going through all the trouble to be such a 
respected security corp only to blow it all by getting tied 
up in smuggling. Too easy to bring them down.
>	
Sounder
>	
It’s not all of CPS. There are a select few captains who 
operate a little private side business in order to pad 
their retirement funds. Okay, Captain Irontusk pads his 
retirement. Captain Oakhull blows every extra nuyen 
on entertainment in his shore time. I wouldn’t be 
surprised if Thark knows and is planning to deal with 
this issue internally. 
>	
Rigger X
YOMI NO KIOKU
POSTED BY: NO ONI
This society is based in Japan but has spread their 
influence all around the Pacific. Many compare 
them to Mothers of Metahumams, if MoM had 
needed to grow up inside a system that offered 
no support and actively tried to destroy it at every 
turn. Across Japan and throughout the Pacific re-
gion, YnK peacefully protests against the oppres-
sive nature of the conservative Japanese view of 
metahumanity and tries to change their ideas of 
our value and place in society. It is a fight that 
will not be completely won for a long time, but 
recent progress has them encouraged to keep up 
the struggle. 
Certain parts of this generation aren’t satisfied 
with the slow pace of progress and have pooled 
within YnK to form a more militant sect, the Yomi 
no Yurei. Every member of the YnY is trained in 
oni-do, the trog martial art, and they pride them-
selves on displaying their prowess and the supe-
riority of their martial art over that of others. Per-
sonal challenges are common occurrences for YnY 
members, sometimes threatening the success of a 
mission because their enemies know their pride is 
their weakness. 
Both parts work to try to change the cultural view 
of trogs through education rather than violence 
when possible. The group knows that it only exists 
because the megacorporations allow it to exist, and 
if they wanted to they could crush it like a flower 
petal in a fist. Their philosophy is that the megacor-
porations want to change, and therefore they leave 
this group in existence to slowly help them make 
that change in an almost subconscious way. 
At the head of the YnK is Aku Hidashi, an ork 
with a Yomi Island past. Despite being abandoned 
by his family and exiled for multiple decades he 
believes in Japanese honor and tradition, simply 
blaming the current state on a misguided fear 
caused by so many changes near the turn of the 
century. He believes, and points out, that improve-
ments have been made, though slowly, and the 
troll and ork citizens of Japan and the Japanacorps 
have it better today than they did thirty years ago. 
The rest of the organization is one big happy fam-
ily. They don’t separate themselves by chapter or 
even location, and all of them identify each other 
as honorable cousins. 
At the head of the YnY is Arasaka, a pseud-
onym for Hitsu Hidashi, the grandson of Aku. 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
174    UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES >>


===== PAGE 176 =====
Though raised with—and fully believing in—his 
grandfather’s beliefs, Hitsu thinks more needs to 
be done to protect their people while they work 
toward social justice. His sect focuses on eliminat-
ing dishonorable aspects of the culture that act out 
of hatred, rather than ignorance or fear. Though 
they act in many ways like terrorists, they arrange 
themselves in a similar fashion to their parent or-
ganization. Members of the YnY refer to each oth-
er as brothers, no matter the gender, to represent 
their close bond. They don’t worry about being 
betrayed, as the act of betrayal is dishonorable. No 
real member would dishonor themselves, and in-
filtrating the group is a tall order as you have to be 
an ork or a troll, plus you have to be loyal enough 
to one of the YnY’s enemies to get assigned the 
task. Considering all of their enemies don’t look 
kindly on orks and trolls … you can see my point. 
With the Japanacorps still heavy into limit-
ing competition outside of Japan, the YnK think 
it is a good opportunity to work in areas outside 
their traditional Pacific realm. They do quite a bit 
of intelligence gathering in order to find the best 
approach with offices around the world, working 
hard to understand the local culture as it compares 
to the culture of home.
The YnY aren’t as expansive. They know their 
efforts are best focused at the heart and not the 
limbs of the native megacorps. Pulling in more re-
sources from other local areas is their largest cur-
rent effort, but I was unable to ascertain what the 
additional trogpower was for exactly. They can’t 
start any kind of large-scale engagement against 
the corps, so that’s not it, but there is little else for 
which I can see such a large force utilized.
MOTHERS OF 
METAHUMANS
POSTED BY: ORKRIGHTS
I know it says metahumans, but MoM does the 
bulk of its work for orks and trolls, because the 
bulk of its membership are orks and trolls. Ear-
ly on, the group realized that this portion of 
the metahuman spectrum caught the garbage 
PR spewed out by a population terrified of the 
changes in the world. Back in its early days it 
focused on protesting for equal rights, includ-
ing, in many places, acknowledgement as more 
than monsters. It’s grown and accomplished a 
lot since then and now acts as the world’s larg-
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES    175


===== PAGE 179 =====
meet a real troll, since they make up such a small 
portion of the population and tend to live in the 
lowest-income parts of town.  
>	
I played as one of these guys to get into a corp. It worked 
pretty well until I hit a MAD scanner. Seems big brothers 
don’t need the augments I got.
>	
2XL
The organization has offices in most of the 
major UCAS, CAS, and CalFree cities, as well as 
a few within the NAN. The upper management 
of the organization works with most of the ma-
jor megacorps as well as several governmental 
and private institutions to get trolls introduced to 
young people everywhere. The movement has 
not only improved the overall view of trolls as a 
people but also provides plenty of photo ops for 
groups that want to show they are forward-think-
ing when it comes to metahumans. I understand 
this isn’t a true face at times, but at least the image 
is out there and speaking for itself. 
>	
Big Brother members have even visited Humanis Policlub 
meetings and volunteered to mentor young men and 
women from the HP. This provided a great photo op, but 
no one actually took them up on it. 
>	
Butch
>	
Great photo op, and great recon op. Our guy got much 
further than any other troll ever could and a whole 
lot further then the rest of us were going to. The intel 
helped us slip in and grab a healthy chunk of paydata 
on when and where that chapterhouse would be 
sending its thugs to cause trouble, including a potential 
bombing of a Big Brother center. 
>	
Sunshine
TROLL AND ORK 
LEADERSHIP 
ORGANIZATION
POSTED BY: 0RKCE0
Back a hundred years ago, when racial tensions 
focused on skin color instead of metatypes, mem-
bers of minority groups who worked for larger 
corps banded together in employee resource 
groups so they could talk about their common 
interests, build solidarity, and draw strength from 
each other. While the need for such groups has 
not gone away, the supportive structure for them 
has changed. Don’t get me wrong, by and large 
corporations are top-down organizations, which 
means any talk about empowering employees is 
only going to go so far. But employees have not 
exactly gained any leverage in the twenty-first 
century. Longer hours are demanded, with very 
specific metrics that can only be achieved through 
dedicated focus. Unsurprisingly, meetings with 
employee resource groups play almost no part in 
these metrics.
In many corps this has led to the virtual disap-
pearance of such groups, but metahumanity is a 
stubborn beast. Ten years ago in Manhattan, as 
resource groups within Mitsuhama, NeoNET, and 
Ares were on the verge of collapsing, the leaders 
of troll- and ork-centered groups in these corps 
met together and decided to pool their efforts into 
a single outside group, the Troll and Ork Leader-
ship Organziation, or TOLO.
The mission statement of TOLO is to train the 
next generation of troll and ork leaders, and they 
focus on all steps of leadership development, from 
elementary education to building career skills to 
networking for experienced employees. The group 
was initially funded by donations from the three 
founders—Eileen Corr, Patterson DuMarl, and Verna 
Dickinson. From there, it expanded into individual 
dues from members, which increased both as the 
organization grew and some of those members 
made their way into elevated positions in the corps. 
Some unaffiliated trogs give to the organization 
simply to support the cause—Gary Cline is not a 
member, and never has been as far as I know, but 
makes donations in the six figures annually.
Corr has retired since the organization was 
founded, and DuMarl died in ’77, leaving Dickin-
son as the only founder still involved with the or-
ganization. She served as CEO for a while, then 
moved into a senior adviser position to reduce the 
daily grind on her. One of her early protégés, Va-
nessa Pho, took over the reins of the organization 
about three years ago, bringing fresh energy to 
the group.
>	
Pho is not as cautious as the founding triumvirate. While 
older generations of trogs are sometimes content to 
simply not be arrested on sight when entering executive 
offices, Pho wants full equality. One of Dickinson’s main 
functions in staying with the group is to rein in Pho. Want 
to make the organization behave with a more radical 
bent? Keep Dickinson and Pho separate for a while.
>	
Mr. Bonds
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
178    UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES >>


===== PAGE 180 =====
Energy, of course, does not translate into power. 
TOLO does an excellent job connecting members 
to job opportunities and providing professional de-
velopment responsibilities, but their work to build 
the strength of orks and trolls through collective ac-
tion is … well, unfinished. Anyone seeking to gain 
power needs some sort of leverage, and TOLO is 
still looking for the right source. Strikes plain and 
simply don’t work—most governments don’t rec-
ognize a right to strike, and it’s hard to get enough 
trogs on board from any one sector to make any 
sort of an impact. Sure, some trog executives are 
on board with TOLO, but they know where their 
bread is buttered. If push comes to shove, they’ll 
side with their corps and leave TOLO twisting in the 
wind. Pho knows just how far TOLO can push—and 
she knows not to go any farther.
With all that said, what good is TOLO, then, es-
pecially when it comes to people in the shadows? 
Well, for one thing, remember that they’re looking 
for leverage, and as time has worn on, their lead-
ership has decided that they are not above using 
a little blackmail to help advance their cause. Their 
judicious in their use—it has to be the right infor-
mation at the right time—but if you come across 
some dirt that an org like TOLO might be able to 
use, carefully approaching them about selling it 
might bring you some nuyen.
Second, TOLO has connections in corporations 
across the world, and they are generally inclined 
to help out a fellow trog. Sometimes they even 
have pieces of dirt that they are waiting for the 
right time to use. Treat them nice and perhaps use 
some cash judiciously, and some of their knowl-
edge might become yours.
The third option is perhaps one for the more 
creative runners out there. Along with placing 
trogs in existing corps, TOLO is often looking to 
help new trog start-ups, which requires upfront 
funding. Plenty of people in the shadows know 
that new businesses are also a great way to launder 
some money. So if you are working an operation 
that could stand to have some money cleaned, 
TOLO might be a good contact. 
>	
There are a number of fun games you can play with this. 
For example, let’s say you find a corp exec who is a secret 
Human Nation supporter. Chances are good he has his 
support all locked up and secret so it can’t be connected 
to them. It might be easy to dummy up some TOLO 
investment and them connect then to that. Once that 
connection is made, let the Human Nation know that their 
supposed supporter is secretly supporting trog rights. 
Then step back and watch the feathers fly.
>	
Dr. Spin 
LARRY’S KIDS
POSTED BY: THORN
Larry Zincan, the ork Prince, always has been an 
anomaly. Named a Prince of Tír Tairngire in 2036 
in order to show that the nation represented more 
metatypes than elves, Zincan seemed to dance 
across fissure lines within the Tír, finding ways to 
transform the nation while never really being ac-
cepted by some of the country’s elite. He found 
enough popular support to become High Prince, 
instituting reforms that helped bring the oft-iso-
lated Tír more into the fellowship of nations. One 
significant sign of his achievements is that when 
the more-isolation-minded Marie-Louise Teles-
trian took over, she didn’t rollback all the initia-
tives Zincan launched—in fact, she couldn’t have 
even if she wanted to, because many of Zincan’s 
reforms had already taken deep root. The educa-
tion systems he introduced are now part of the 
fabric of the nation—everyone who lives there, 
even orks and trolls, have the chance to attend a 
decent, even good, school. 
While Zincan has no direct, or even indirect, 
role to play in the organization, Larry’s Kids seeks 
to carry out the ideals he represented in his time 
in office—namely, more integration between 
all races, better educational opportunities, and 
law-enforcement reforms. Unsurprisingly, they’re 
based in the Pacific Northwest. Also unsurpris-
ingly, they are not based in the Tír, because Zin-
can did not change things so much in that nation 
that an ork-centric social organization could be 
expected to thrive there. Instead, the organiza-
tion took root in Tacoma—close enough to Puyal-
lup to take advantage of its trog population, but 
connected to mainstream society enough to get 
the infrastructure and funding needed to turn it 
into a real organization.
The leader of the group—an ork named Baruk 
Fahd—is savvy enough to alter his pitch to various 
donors. When he is talking to his fellow trogs, he’ll 
focus on overcoming obstacles, getting access to 
education, creating equity in hiring practices, and 
so forth. When he is speaking to non-trogs, he’ll 
focus on “wayward youth,” orks and trolls who 
need to be redirected from their criminal ways into 
options that will help them become more produc-
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES    179


===== PAGE 181 =====
tive members of society. Since there is very little 
that scares a conventional middle-class corp suit 
more than a trog wearing gang colors, this ap-
proach works. The more trog youth are redirected 
to other options, the fewer there will be to mug 
them, they figure.
Fahd has definitely put some of the money he 
has collected into branding—AROs proclaiming 
the good work of Larry’s Kids have been increas-
ingly common in Seattle, with sightings also oc-
curring in Cara’sir, San Francisco, and even L.A. 
He bought a two-story building near the bay, 
made sure it had the Larry’s Kids logo (a styl-
ized L overlapping a K, with the top legs of the K 
looking like tusks) all over, and produced some 
nice images of the parts of the Sprawl near the 
bay that highlight the logo nicely. Plenty of peo-
ple have seen the image; fewer could tell you 
just what the organization does from this build-
ing. Some basic activities are clear—hosting 
mentoring programs involving orks and trolls 
working corporate jobs, building parks in Puy-
allup, and directing funds to Puyallup and Red-
mond schools. None of this is game-changing, 
or even large scale, so it is not clear why Larry’s 
Kids deserves the attention it is getting, or just 
what plans Fahd has for the organization.
There is one interesting and perhaps troubling 
sign. Larry’s Kids runs a youth center in Puyallup, 
across the street from a lot that, as far as I can tell, 
has been vacant for about two decades. That va-
cancy is about to end, though—construction has 
started on a ten-story building that, according to 
permits on file, will contain one story of retail (a 
function almost entirely absent from that part of 
Puyallup), five stories of housing, a story of offic-
es for undefined functions, and then “three sto-
ries of open recreational area.” Does that sound 
familiar? How about the fact that the ceilings of 
these floors are abnormally high, and the floors 
will be designed to hold loads far beyond normal 
building capacities? 
These are the only hints about the building’s 
nature the plans contain. The plans were filled by 
a large though nondescript construction firm—
Moore & Buck, to be specific—on behalf of the 
neutrally named and privately held Assets Hold-
ing, Inc. (yes, that’s the real name). Searches of 
Assets Holding reveal nothing of note, primarily 
because they reveal nothing at all. It is an empty 
shell with well-disguised owners. But those rein-
forced three stories make people think the build-
ing is being constructed by the same scaly indi-
vidual who built a similar (though larger) structure 
in Redmond. 
What, though, does this have to do with Lar-
ry’s Kids, other than being across the street? Most 
of us would answer, “nothing,” but here is where 
the preservative powers of the Matrix work for us. 
Touting their work in Puyallup, Larry’s Kids issued 
a press release in May. The original version stayed 
on their Matrix site for approximately four hours, 
then was replaced by an edited version. The third 
paragraph of the release originally read like this:
Larry’s Kids is proud to be a spark in the grow-
ing Puyallup renaissance. By bringing job and ed-
ucational opportunities to area residents, LK has 
already become a trusted resource and partner in 
the community. Our partnerships are growing—
food pantries, after-school programs, and recre-
ational facilities are part of our network, and the 
new Playground facility being built across from 
our Puyallup location will be a vital partner and 
community resource for years to come.
After the change, it read as follows:
Larry’s Kids is proud to be a spark in the grow-
ing Puyallup renaissance. By bringing job and ed-
ucational opportunities to area residents, LK has 
already become a trusted resource and partner in 
the community. Our partnerships are growing—
food pantries, after-school programs, and recre-
ational facilities are part of our network, and we 
look forward to forming new partnerships with 
organizations following our lead into this fertile 
neighborhood of Seattle.
I found no other references to this “Playground” 
in connection with the building going up across 
the street. The staff of Larry’s Kids clearly has 
knowledge about the place that no one else has—
and their knowledge, combined with the building 
specs, certainly makes it sound like Urubia’s Fun-
house. What is this partnership about, and what 
is Urubia’s ultimate goal in his construction plans? 
Let the construction commence.
>	
In the interest of fairness, I should say that maybe this 
was a mistake, an error in wishful thinking rather than 
leaking private information. Someone on the staff of 
Larry’s Kids may have heard something about the plans 
and gotten a little ahead of themselves, speculating about 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
180    UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES >>


===== PAGE 182 =====
what the construction across the street might be without 
accurate or verified information. The press release was 
then scrubbed when higher-ups noticed the unfounded 
language in the document.
>	
Sunshine
>	
Do you really believe that’s what happened?
>	
Sounder
>	
No.
>	
Sunshine
>	
If Urubia is connected to Larry’s Kids, that means she’s 
taken a different tack then the one she followed in 
Redmond, where she worked directly with the gangs. In 
Redmond, she was the reformer; if she’s working with 
Larry’s Kids, she’s letting someone else do the reforming 
first. Dragons don’t do things randomly—if she made a 
change, why did she do it?
>	
Borderline
>	
Unless she hasn’t changed, and Larry’s Kids has few 
verifiable activities because they are not so much 
focused on gang reform as raising money and funneling 
it to the gangs.
>	
Mika
>	
Interesting theory, but needs evidence.
>	
Snopes
TROG BUREAU OF 
INVESTIGATION
POSTED BY: MIHOSHI ONI
The Troll Bureau of Investigation—abbreviat-
ed TBI, naturally—does not exist. Of course it 
doesn’t. It’s a ludicrous concept on its face. 
Yes, there are a few non-governmental intelli-
gence agencies—Aegis Cognito and InFolio im-
mediately leap to mind, and many of the larger 
mercenary firms have an intelligence arm—but 
these agencies came along to replace govern-
ment functions, not act in opposition to them. 
The TBI is an agency for a country that does not 
exist, which is a solid argument for why it it-
self does not exist, for no organization can exist 
without funding.
Some people say that perhaps trog-oriented 
nations might fund the TBI, but how many of them 
are there? The Black Forest Troll Republic wouldn’t 
outsource such functions, and if we exclude them, 
who’s left? Tír Tairngire? They also take care of 
their own intelligence, and if they outsourced any-
thing, you can be sure it would not be to a militant 
pro-trog organization. A corp certainly wouldn’t 
support this group, or at least not any of the big 
ones. It cannot have any significant funding, there-
fore it cannot exist.
Yet the rumors persist of a vast network of orks 
and trolls gathering sensitive intelligence and de-
ploying it in startlingly effective ways. Given that 
we can’t be sure the organization exists, we cer-
tainly don’t know anything about the leadership 
or members. Or anything. All we have are rumors 
and stories—here are some I have heard.
Vladivostok: When Anatoly Kirilenko was killed, 
finger-pointing began immediately, and one of the 
groups that quickly came under suspicion was the 
local Sons of Sauron chapter. Evidence emerged 
placing a Sons member at the scene with a weap-
on of the type used in the shooting. Naturally, there 
was a lot of pressure on law enforcement to find 
someone responsible, and they were happy to fol-
low the bait that was dangled in front of them. To 
be clear: They were far more interested in solidify-
ing the evidence against the Sons of Sauron than 
they were in exploring any other theories. Yet with-
in a week, they had turned up evidence that 1) The 
weapon of the Sons member in question had not 
been fired in days; 2) The Vory had been looking to 
bring the Sons into line and had leaked evidence 
about said member in order to put pressure on the 
metahumans organization; and 3) Kirilenko may 
have been taken out as part of a shadowrunner 
campaign against prominent head cases. How did 
the police turn up so much information that they 
were not looking for? An informant showed up, an 
ork listed on police records as having the decidedly 
non-Russian name of Tiffany Brunson Ignatius. As 
a complete stranger, she would not have been giv-
en much credibility by the police except for the fact 
that she provided corroboration, including inter-
cepted messages and recorded conversations, for 
each point she made. The police did not, of course, 
disclose how she received this information. They 
averred, though, that it was exceptionally sound.
Denver: Chaos is never good for the most vul-
nerable populations of any location, and Denver is 
no different. With Ghostwalker removing all trac-
es of democracy and turning the city into his fief-
dom, along with the eugenic medical work being 
conducted by Paladin Medical Group, trogs in that 
city were suffering, hard. Suddenly, messages start-
ed darting out to commlinks across the city. Trogs 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES    181


===== PAGE 183 =====
needing evacuation services were connected to 
available slots. People planning emergency food 
drops received messages about hidden popula-
tions of hungry trogs that they didn’t know about. 
Families who had been separated from each other 
received messages telling them where to find their 
missing kin. And so on. The common thread in all 
of these messages were that they came from Tran-
sition Builders, Inc., a company that has zero pres-
ence on the Matrix, and there is no registration for 
them anywhere.
Nairobi: The Kilimanjaro mass driver is up 
and functioning, but that does not mean the lo-
cal spirits have given up the fight against it. They 
have not engaged in any mass disruptions, but 
rather seem to favor regular harassment of con-
voys making their way from Nairobi to the mass 
driver, particularly those that carried parts im-
portant to continued space operations. After 
some study, though, one bureaucrat noticed that 
trucks driven by orks and trolls seemed to make it 
through, without hassle, far more often than oth-
er trucks. Willing to test this theory out, managers 
connected to the mass driver started assigning 
more work to trog drivers. Non-trogs didn’t like 
losing the work, but sure enough the number of 
attacks dropped dramatically. While the drivers 
will tell you it was because of their greater skill in 
avoiding roadblocks, a free spirit allied to Saed-
er-Krupp dropped into Nairobi with an interesting 
story, saying that some of the spirits of Kilimanja-
ro were not harassing orks and trolls due to what 
they called the “Thuo Bank Initiative.” As you no 
doubt assumed, there is no Thuo Bank in Nairobi. 
Or Kenya. Or anywhere.
All this is just circumstantial, but it is also the tip 
of the iceberg. You can find plenty of Matrix boards 
embroiled in discussions of this mysterious intelli-
gence-gathering entity, one that seems to be both 
omnipresent and nowhere. These theorists con-
nect people half-seen in security camera stills with 
rumors of individuals who may be ghosts or may 
never have existed. They pile coincidence on coinci-
dence to see what might lie underneath. They have 
no evidence, but as is the case with any conspiracy 
theory, they claim that the lack of evidence is the 
true proof that something is going on.
Is there anything there? I can’t say. Do I sleep 
better at night, thinking that there is a secretive band 
of trogs gathering what information they can, then 
carefully deploying it in ways that benefit our kind? 
Damn right I do.
>	
I suppose in any post of decent length, we can dedicate 
some space to comforting fairy tales.
>	
Snopes
>	
Yep, nothing more than a pipe dream. A pipe dream that, 
frankly, pays pretty well.
>	
Sounder
>	
Oh, you bastard, I’m going to find out what it takes to 
get you to spill everything you know about this subject. 
I gotta hear it.
>	
Butch
>	
Don’t bother. She’s screwing with you.
>	
2XL
>	
The great thing about how people view the TBI right now 
is that it creates its own misinformation almost as soon 
as it’s mentioned. Absolutely nothing can be believed. 
Whether it’s real or it’s a smokescreen, getting that level 
of automatic doubt about every possible statement is 
an impressive feat. I tip my hat in the direction of these 
invisible masters.
>	
Fianchetto
ORK RIGHTS 
COMMITTEE
The elder statesman of pro-trog organizations 
is at a crossroads. The Ork Rights Committee 
prospered for a long time under the leadership 
of Greg Jackson—anytime they looked like they 
were running short on funding, or maybe were a 
vote or two shy on getting an initiative to pass 
Congress, Jackson would deliver and inspiring 
speech, make a few commcalls, and/or take a 
few meetings, and the final puzzle pieces would 
fall into place. But the life of an activist is de-
manding, and Jackson stepped down from the 
organization last year. The original plan called for 
a new president to be in place when Jackson re-
tired. Then that changed to have board member 
Baldwin Kew step in as interim president for six 
months until the new president was hired. Then 
six months passed, and no president was named. 
No new timeframe has been announced.
It’s difficult to say just why the search is taking 
this long, but here is one thing that is definitely 
not the problem: a lack of qualified candidates. 
Yes, orks are underrepresented in management 
positions across the world, but that doesn’t mean 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
182    UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES >>


===== PAGE 184 =====
they’re aren’t at least a few thousand of them. 
And a number of them would be happy to take 
over leadership of such a prestigious organization 
(even if it meant a pay cut from what they would 
earn in the corporate sector). A number of capa-
ble names have been floated, and it seems clear 
that ORC could get reasonable terms from most of 
them. All they have to do is make a decision.
That, then, is the challenge, and it’s a dilemma 
that puts to two strains of the ORC against each 
other, possibly to a breaking point. It’s a concern 
similar to that faced by the Timmons Fund: Is the 
ultimate goal integration or a separate, self-sus-
taining home for trogs? The ORC has trod both 
sides of this debate for a long time, but the strug-
gle to get a new leader has a lot of people feeling 
as if it’s time to make a decision. The new leader 
will put their stamp on the direction of the orga-
nization, so board members, senior-level staffers, 
and even some politicians are angling to make 
sure that stamp is the one they want. And this is 
not just about isolation versus integration—the 
methods of insider lobbying versus outsider ac-
tion are being discussed. These two elements 
are not necessarily in opposition, as plenty of 
organizations have combined political work with 
grassroots advocacy before, but there are some 
within ORC who would like to shed the organiza-
tion’s somewhat stodgy reputation entirely and 
be much more aggressive, to Sons of Sauron lev-
els or beyond. It’s not likely that these forces will 
win in the fight for control of the organization, but 
they definitely have played a role in dragging out 
the leadership search. Kew is holding the fort for 
now, and while he is a capable administrator, he is 
not the leader the organization needs.
Here’s a quick guide to three of the top players 
in this ongoing drama.
CrimeTime: The legendary musician was re-
cruited by Jackson to the ORC board a few years 
ago. Early in his term CrimeTime served as mostly 
a tool to raise money (including the donations he 
made), but as Jackson was preparing to retire, he 
took some time to groom the CrimeTime and help 
him better understand what the organization was 
doing and why. He now is a leading voice for the 
stay-the-course-and-preserve-Jackson’s-legacy 
faction in the organization.
Diamond Reeve: Reeve has been with the orga-
nization for fifteen years, starting as a research 
intern and working her way up to vice-president 
of infrastructure. Which means that she has been 
involved in every effort the ORC has undertaken 
to build ork sanctuaries, cities, and even nations. 
She has been quite energetic in this regard, and 
she is now one of the leaders pushing hardest 
for a homeland-building approach. Or at least, 
several homelands, since you generally can’t just 
up and buy an entire nation for orks to inhabit. 
She has a detailed list of spots that she believes 
are ripe to become ork havens, spots that could 
then be pivotal in shifting the attitude of entire 
nations. Monte Video, Uruguay. Prague, Czech 
Republic. Rangoon, Indochina. Those are some of 
her leading targets. What she will do with those 
cities, or if she will get the chance to do them, 
remains to be seen.
Bernard Marks: Marks has been involved with 
ORC almost from the beginning, and he has been 
both a staunch supporter and a nonstop critic of 
its work. ORC has generally worked through es-
tablished channels, which means working to get 
legislation passed, lobbying the government, 
pressuring politicians, and so forth. The problem, 
Marks avers, is that it takes significant effort to 
get the government to do anything, and when 
you do, all you are influencing is a sector whose 
influence is far beneath that of the corps. In the 
end, ORC’s methods are making them fight for 
the scraps of the scraps that fall to government. 
He wants to move the organization a few steps 
up the food chain.
Marks is clear in his belief that the way you get 
things in the Sixth World is to take them. To him, 
the ends very much justify the means, because the 
ends—what you have and what you can do with 
it—are the only things that matter. He supports 
anything that can get trogs a more fair share piece 
of the pie. Theft and violence are all on the table. 
The only constraints are avoiding reprisals—push 
the powers of the world too far, and they might 
swing back before you have enough strength to 
resist. He is cagey, and some call him amoral. He’s 
not, though; it’s just that his moral center is fo-
cused on elevating orks and trolls. Whatever does 
that is right in his eyes.
Those are the big three. Who will win out for 
control of the ORC, and what direction will the or-
ganization take? Who knows, but the shadows will 
help decide.
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< UNITED WE STOMP: TROG GROUPS & SOCIETIES    183


===== PAGE 185 =====
GEAR
The world is not made for orks and trolls, so they 
have to make it fit them. Here are some pieces of 
gear that can help.
ANTENNA GRILL
Got an implanted commlink or cyberdeck? Want 
to cut through the noise that afflicts the wireless 
world? Then get yourself a stylish and useful an-
tenna grill. Useful only on tusks (since they have 
regular exposure to the air outside the mouth), 
these metal implants connect to a wire in the jaw 
that runs up to the ’link or deck, improving recep-
tion. Double the distance on all categories when 
calculating noise modifiers (p. 231, SR5).
Essence 0.1, Availability 4, Cost 1,000¥
Anarchy Shadow Amp: Amp level 1. Add one to 
a single die roll on a Matrix test.
BMW TROLLHAMMER
BMW revamped their meta-friendly classic, soup-
ing up the engine, pushing the front wheel slightly 
more forward, and giving it a more angular appear-
ance. Most of the basics remain intact, though, 
from its low-slung seat to its throaty engine. It’s 
not the most economical bike on the market, but 
sometimes you pay a premium to get something 
that feels like it fits you with no compromises.
Anarchy: Armor 8, Durability 10
FOLDING METACHAIR
Look, this is a luxury and probably unnecessary. 
But when you spend enough time going from 
place to place with chairs that don’t fit you, or 
that threaten to break the moment you place 
any weight on them, you start to wish you just 
had a reliable chair you could bring with you any-
where. This is that chair. It compresses to a cylin-
der only slightly larger than your favorite soykaf 
thermos, but when assembled, it can hold an ork 
easily. Get the MaxiMetaChair, and it can hold a 
troll (though when compressed, it has twice the 
volume of the smaller version). The chair sets up 
within minutes—or faster, with the microbot-en-
abled self-assembly model. Do you want to 
make a statement that you will make a place for 
yourself in the world? Then set one of these up 
in whatever trog-unfriendly place you visit, and 
show that any place can be made to suit you.
MetaChair, basic: Availability —, Cost 50¥
MetaChair, self-assembly: Availability —, Cost 
200¥
MaxiMetaChair, basic: Availability —, Cost 85¥
MaxiMetaChair, self-assembly: Availability —, 
Cost 235¥
Anarchy: Treat as gear.
FORD TITAN
As would be expected, the more purchasing 
power a certain group has, the more they are go-
ing to be marketed to. The Ford Titan is a variant 
on their Econovan with more headroom, a sturdi-
er suspension, and larger seats. Humans, elves, 
and dwarfs may feel lost in the large interior, but 
orks and trolls love being able to get in without 
excessive bending, stooping, or folding. The loss 
of some seating capacity is, of course, a natural 
consequence of trying to make orks and trolls 
comfortable, and the van is longer than the Econ-
BMW TROLLHAMMER
HAN
SPEED ACCEL BOD
ARM PILOT SENS SEATS AVAIL COST
4/3
4
2
10
8
1
2
1
—
12,500¥
THE COMPLETE TROG
EVERYTHING
TROG
184    EVERYTHING TROG >>


===== PAGE 186 =====
ovan. Some orks and trolls feel resentment at hav-
ing one of the companies that treated them as an 
afterthought for so long suddenly acting like their 
ally, and they view any of their fellow trogs who 
drive the Titan as sell-outs. Others, though, can’t 
resist the comfort and fit the van provides.
Anarchy: Armor 8, Durability 16
HORN COMPARTMENT
Similar to a tooth compartment (p. 452, SR5) but 
larger, the horn compartment gives a slick way to 
carry credsticks, RFID tags, or other small items. As 
with the tooth compartment, it can be equipped 
to remove the enclosed items with either a wire-
less signal or a hidden catch. Unlike the tooth 
compartment, it cannot be used for self-poisoning 
purposes, because of course it can’t. 
Essence —, Availability 8, Cost 1,000¥
Anarchy: Treat as gear.
OSMIUM MACE
There are all sorts of ways to make weapons more 
effective, but in the end, if you have a strong arm 
delivering the blow, all you really need in order to 
be effective is something with lots of mass and 
inertia that will pound a huge amount of force 
into the chest of whoever you’re hitting. The club 
does this job pretty well, but if you have the arm 
strength for it, having extra weight at the end of 
the shaft can really get momentum swinging, 
delivering a huge payload of kinetic energy to 
the target. Enter the osmium mace, which some 
say is over the top in terms of its pain-delivering 
mass, while others say that’s just the way they like 
it. Osmium is the most dense metal on earth, but 
its brittle nature makes it unsuitable for the con-
struction of a weapon. It’s just fine, though, for 
a ball on the interior of a mace head, especially 
when it is alloyed to make it more durable and 
then surrounded by a titanium shell to help dif-
fuse some of the shock of impact away from the 
core. The result is a weapon that is difficult for the 
average person to lift up, let alone swing. When 
you get up to ork or troll levels of strength, you 
can deliver devastating blows that make you look 
like a character straight out of mythology. 
*Accuracy decreases to 3 when wielded by 
someone with Strength of 4 or lower and increas-
es to 5 when wielded by someone with Strength 
of 7 or higher.
DV changes to (STR+2)P when wielded by 
someone with Strength of 4 or lower and increas-
es to (STR+6)P when wielded by someone with 
Strength of 7 or higher.
Anarchy Weapon: Close Combat, DV (STR/2 + 
3), Close OK, Near —, Far —
REINFORCED ROPE
Normal and stealth rope typically hold 400 kilo-
grams, which seems like more than enough for 
most metatypes, but put two trolls on a single 
rope—or even an ork and a troll—and you have 
trouble. Reinforced rope provides extra strength 
when you need to haul multiple trogs. Both the 
FORD TITAN
HAN
SPEED ACCEL BOD
ARM PILOT SENS SEATS AVAIL COST
3/2
4
1
16
8
2
2
8
—
32,500¥
OSMIUM MACE
ACC
REACH
DV
AP
AVAIL
COST
4*
2
(STR+4)P
–1
14R
5,500¥
<< EVERYTHING TROG    185


===== PAGE 187 =====
standard and stealth variants hold up to 600 kilo-
grams, while reinforced micro rope can hold 200 
kilograms (which leaves trolls still out of luck, but 
it’s at least something for orks!).
Reinforced standard rope: Availability 2, Cost 
100¥ per 100 m
Reinforced stealth rope: Availability 12F, Cost 
170¥ per 100 m
Reinforced microwire: Availability 8, Cost 
100¥ per 100 m
Anarchy: Treat as gear.
 
ROCKBLOOD OLD SCHOOL LINE
This fashion line is designed to enhance the ork 
form, making it look both strong and elegant. 
Well-dressed orks across the globe are getting 
on board with Rockblood’s fashion sense, mak-
ing them feel like they don’t have to look like 
other metatypes to be stylish. The clothing has 
an armor rating of 8 and increases the wearer’s 
Social limit by 1. Capacity 10, Availability 8, Cost 
1,900¥.
Anarchy: Armor value 9. 
When used as Shadow Amp: Amp value 2. Ar-
mor value 9, add 1 to a single die on any Social test.
ROCKBLOOD SIGNATURE 
ARMORED SHIRT
This is an armored shirt specifically designed for 
trolls by the fashion designer known as Rockblood. 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
186    EVERYTHING TROG >>


===== PAGE 188 =====
It makes trolls look both powerful and elegant, so 
that dermal deposits seem like a part of the cloth-
ing. The wearer receives +1 to both Etiquette and 
Intimidate tests while wearing the shirt—as long as 
they’re a troll. It also has an Armor value of 6 and a 
Capacity of 4. Availability 14, Cost 800¥.
Anarchy: Armor value 6 (+1 skill point).
When used as Shadow Amp: Amp value 2. Ar-
mor value 6, may reroll 1 die on any Social test.
TROLL ROARER
This unusual implant takes advantage of the low 
frequencies of troll voices that go beyond any-
thing emitted by other metatypes. The sounds 
are not audible to other metatypes. The roarer 
extends the distance by which the sound can 
be heard by 1 kilometer per point of Rating. 
Due to the nature of infrasound, trolls cannot 
shape full words when using the roarer, so it 
cannot be used to hold a conversation. It can 
be very useful, however, in allowing trolls to 
signal each other at range in a way that has low 
chance of detection or interference—unless, of 
course, the opposition has a troll on staff who 
hears the signal, too.
Ratings for the troll roarer range from 1 to 12
Availability: (Rating)R, Cost (50 x Rating)¥, Es-
sence 0.1
Anarchy: Treat as gear.
YERZ KIT
Your vehicle is not simply a mode of transporta-
tion—it’s a statement. And the thrust of that state-
ment is that you are not to be ignored. Whether 
it’s a nice set of rims, some accent lighting, a fan-
cy paint job, or something else, you spend a little 
extra to make your vehicle very distinctly your 
own. This kit has items you need to make your 
vehicle fully yerzed out.
Availability: —, Cost 500¥
GEAR AVAILABILITY AND COSTS
ITEM
AVAILABILITY
COST
Antenna grill
4
1,000¥
BMW Trollhammer
—
12,500¥
Folding MetaChair
     Basic
—
50¥
     Basic, self-assembly
—
200¥
     Maxi, basic
—
85¥
     Maxi, self-assembly
—
235¥
Ford Titan
—
32,500¥
Horn compartment
8
1,000¥
Osmium mace
14R
5,500¥
Reinforced standard rope
2
100¥ per 100m
Reinforced stealth rope
12F
170¥ per 100m
Reinforced microwire
8
100¥ per 100m
Rockblood Old School Line
8
1,900¥
Rockblood Signature Armored Shirt
14
800¥
Troll roarer
(Rating)R
(50 x Rating)¥
Yerz kit
—
500¥
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< EVERYTHING TROG    187


===== PAGE 189 =====
QUALITIES
Here are some qualities to help make your ork 
or troll character the orkiest and trolliest possible.
POSITIVE QUALITIES
BLACK FOREST NATIVE
COST: 22 KARMA
You were born and raised in the Black Forest Troll 
Republic, and that has given you certain knowledge 
and benefits. You receive both the You Know a Guy 
and Street Politics variants of the Home Ground 
quality, and you may choose one of the following bo-
nuses: a +2 bonus when casting the preferred spells 
of the Druidic tradition (Camouflage, Control Pack, 
Invisibility, Resist Pain, and Stunball), or +2 on Infiltra-
tion tests and Survival tests in wooded areas.
Anarchy: Choose one effect when this quality 
is selected: +2 dice on Sorcery tests or +2 dice on 
Survival tests.
COMMUNITY CONNECTION
COST: 5 KARMA
The ork and troll community is not well-known for 
its wealth, but there are a number of trogs who 
have gained some money and are determined 
to use it to help others. Fortunately for you, you 
made contact with them and have become one of 
the beneficiaries. It didn’t make you rich, but it’s a 
nice boost. Ork and troll characters with this quaity 
can maintain a Squatter lifestyle for free, or a Low 
lifestyle for half the usual amount (making it 1,000 
nuyen per month for orks, 2,000 for trolls).
Anarchy: Improve an existing Shadow Amp by 
a single level for free.
DELICATE FINGERS
COST: 5 KARMA; ONLY AVAILABLE TO 
TROLLS, INCLUDING TROLL VARIANTS
You’ve lived for a while as a troll in a human 
world, and you’ve gotten quite good at adapt-
ing. Plus, you have thinner-than-usual fingers and 
hands, which are good for using human-size de-
vices and gear. You do not suffer the –2 penalty 
for using gear that is not adapted to your troll size 
(see Using Unadapted Gear, p. 420, SR5).
Anarchy: +1 die on Escape Artists tests and +1 
die on Engineering tests.
HUMAN LIFESPAN
COST: 10 KARMA
This quality can only be taken at character cre-
ation. It replaces the ork’s normal average lifespan 
with that of a human, so they age and mature at a 
human rate. It has no other effect on the character.
Anarchy: The effect is the same as the SR5 
variant.
NASTY TROG
COST: 5 KARMA
With sharpened horns and/or tusks, clothing worn 
to highlight dermal deposits, and so forth, you 
highlight your inherent trog characteristics in ways 
that make other metatypes nervous. You receive 
+3 to Intimidation tests against all non-orks and 
-trolls (a group that includes ork and troll variants). 
Anarchy: +2 dice on Intimidation tests.
TROG ARTISAN
COST: 8 KARMA
Maybe you learned making things out of scraps in 
Seattle’s Ork Underground. Or maybe you spent 
time in Sweetwater Creek, learning how to craft 
things for orks and trolls. You gain a +2 dice pool 
bonus whenever using the Artisan skill for items 
designed specifically for use by orks or trolls. Note 
that it must be made especially for orks or trolls, 
not just equally usable by them and other groups.
Anarchy: +2 dice on Engineering tests. 
TROG HISTORIAN
COST: 4 KARMA
Whether through dedicated study of recorded his-
tory or long conversations with the people who 
were there, you have amassed a considerable 
body of knowledge of trog history. Whenever you 
are making a Knowledge Skill test that in some 
way involves a significant event in ork or troll his-
tory, you receive a +2 dice pool bonus.
Anarchy: Add 2 history-related Knowledge skills. 
TROG LEADER
COST: 7 KARMA; ONLY AVAILABLE TO 
ORKS OR TROLLS, INCLUDING ORK 
AND TROLL VARIANTS
You say the right things, make the right gestures, 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
188    EVERYTHING TROG >>


===== PAGE 190 =====
and your people respond. When making Leader-
ship tests with any group entirely composed of orks 
and/or trolls, you receive a +2 dice pool bonus.
Anarchy: +1 die to Con tests, +1 die to Nego-
tiation tests.
TROG NETWORKER
COST: 12 KARMA; ONLY AVAILABLE 
TO ORKS OR TROLLS, INCLUDING ORK 
AND TROLL VARIANTS
You are at one with your people. Wherever you go, 
once you are in predominantly ork or troll areas 
(whichever matches your particular metatype), you 
either find someone you know, or someone who 
knows someone you know, or someone who is ea-
ger to get to know you. When you are in neighbor-
hoods that have a majority of your metatype, you 
get a +2 dice pool bonus on Etiquette tests, and you 
receive a +1 dice pool bonus on Navigation tests—
because you either have a good feel for these areas, 
or you’re skilled at finding the right people to give 
you quick directions.
Anarchy: +1 dice on Con tests, +1 to Survival tests.
NEGATIVE QUALITIES 
BAD CREDIT
BONUS: 8 KARMA
Money has never flowed easily to you. You didn’t 
have a network or friends and families with money 
who could help you out in hard times, and landlords 
and employers always seemed to take one look at 
you and rescind their offers, or make the terms much 
worse. In order to survive, you had to fall in with the 
type of lenders and financiers who charge scan-
dalous interest rates and ruinous late fees. All that 
has resulted in black marks that seem to follow you 
wherever you go, no matter what names or SINs you 
use. Your lifestyle costs are 10 percent higher than 
they would otherwise be, and Availability for all piec-
es of gear is treated as 1 higher than it would other-
wise be (note that this effect does not apply to gear 
purchased during the character creation process).
Anarchy: Whenever you receive 4 or more Kar-
ma for a mission, reduce that amount by 1. 
ELEVATED STRESS
BONUS: 8 KARMA
Years of having mainstream society look down on 
you has taken its toll, as has the long-term stress 
associated with it. You take –1 dice pool penalty 
on any Addiction and Toxin Resistance tests due 
to the strain on your health system.
Anarchy: After you take any sort of damage, on 
your next three tests, add a Glitch Die that cannot 
roll any hits. 
FORCE OF CHAOS
BONUS: 4 KARMA
Planning is great—for others. You prefer to throw 
yourself into whatever is happening and see what 
you can pull off, which makes you chafe against 
plans. Any bonuses you might receive from em-
ploying tactics or group maneuvers in combat are 
cut in half (rounded up). 
Anarchy: When other players try to assist you 
on a test, the dice bonus you receive equals half 
the hits on their assist roll, rounded up.
TROG TRAITOR
BONUS KARMA: 5
Maybe you were a security executive in Renraku. 
Maybe you had some hints that the Mr. Johnson 
you were working for was funded by the Human 
Nation, but you decided to take the money and 
not ask too many questions. Whatever it was, 
other orks and trolls look at you with suspicion. 
Your Notoriety is considered to be 5 higher than 
its actual value when you are in ork- or troll-ma-
jority neighborhoods.
Anarchy: –2 dice on Con and Intimidation tests 
in ork- and troll-majority neighborhoods.
LIFE MODULES
The following modules are for use with the Life 
Module character creation system described on 
p. 65, Run Faster.
FORMATIVE YEARS
ORK/TROLL SLUM DWELLER
You didn’t have much in the way of money, and 
you lived in a part of the sprawl where people 
tried to push you to the side and forget about 
you. You developed the ability to survive in dif-
ficult circumstances—and you also developed a 
pretty big chip on your shoulder.
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< EVERYTHING TROG    189


===== PAGE 191 =====
BLACK FOREST BABY
You were born in the Black Forest Kingdom and 
saw it evolve to the Black Forest Troll Republic. 
You have been steeped in ork and troll ways, and 
given an optimistic view of troll and ork potential, 
because you have seen how well it can go when 
they control their own destiny.
TEEN YEARS
TROG GANGER
Strength is in numbers, weakness in isolation. In 
your formative years, you bound yourself to peo-
ple who could help you survive the rough side of 
your city, including the people who wanted to see 
you impoverished, isolated, or even killed simply 
because of your horns and/or tusks. You lashed 
out, hitting the opposition the world aligned 
against you. Sometimes the world hit back, but 
you learned how to keep yourself standing.
SURVIVOR
There were many times when you were growing 
up that the world seemed determined to kill you. 
Sometimes, it took a slow tack, starving you out, 
while other times it went about its task more di-
rectly, with rocks, knives, and bullets rushing to-
ward your head. Somehow, though, you made 
it through all that alive, thanks to your guile and 
cunning. The experience gave you wisdom you 
carry with you.
FURTHER EDUCATION
BILOXI TECHNICAL INSTITUTE 
(65 KARMA)
Biloxi Technical Institute is new, but not so new 
that it hasn’t graduated some students, and you 
are honored to be among that number. You grad-
uated with only a fine education, but also a strong 
sense of trog pride. And, of course, complete 
knowledge of every word of the newly penned 
school fight song.
ORK/TROLL SLUM DWELLER
Attributes
Willpower +1, Intuition +1
Qualities
Trog Networker
Skills
Clubs +1, Perception +1, Sneaking +2, 
Survival (Urban) specialization, Unarmed 
Combat +1, Street Knowledge: [City] +3
TROG GANGER
Attributes
Agility +1, Willpower +1
Qualities
Bad Rep (7), Nasty Trog
Skills
Close Combat skill group +2, Con +1, 
Escape Artist +1, First Aid +1, Gymnastics 
+1, Intimidation +1, Palming +1, Sneaking 
+1, Survival +1, Street Knowledge: [City] +1
SURVIVOR
Attributes
Body +1, Willpower +1, Intuition +1
Qualities
Bad Credit, Trog Networker
Skills
Blades +1, Clubs +1, Con +1, First Aid +1, 
Gymnastics +1, Running + 1, Sneaking +2, 
Survival +2, Swimming +1, Tracking +1, 
Street Knowledge: [City] +1
BILOXI TECHNICAL INSTITUTE
Attributes
Logic +1, Willpower +1
Qualities
Trog Historian
Skills
Computer +1, Perception +1, Etiquette +1, 
Academic Knowledge [Any] +2
Computer 
Science
Cybercombat +1, Electronics skill group 
+1, Hacking +1, Academic Knowledge: 
Hardware Design +2
Engineering Chemistry +1, Hardware +1, Industrial 
Mechanic +1, Academic Knowledge: 
Engineering +4
BLACK FOREST BABY
Attributes
Willpower +1, Logic +1
Qualities
Black Forest Native
Skills
Etiquette +1, Leadership +1, Longarms 
+1, Negotiation +1, Survival (Forests) 
specialization, Black Forest Government 
+1, Black Forest History +1, Black Forest 
People +1
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
190    EVERYTHING TROG >>
