

===== datatrails.pdf p175 =====
er and perhaps discern their motivations by the 
persona they present to the world. In the age 
of digital treasures and virtual worlds, the most 
important possession a hacker can have aside 
from his equipment is his name. A persona with 
flair can attract quite the reputation. The right 
hacker can sniff out facts from fiction and get a 
good idea of what he’s dealing with.
•	
A Witness: Adding physical witnesses to the 
crime proves an opportunity on the meatspace 
side of the scenario. The witness could be oth-
er workers logged in at the time that the deck-
er duped and moved past, to on-site personnel 
who may have seen someone suspicious who 
jacked in. This gives the group’s face things to do, 
such as buying drinks for the new intern at a club. 
More thuggish groups might have their resident 
troll corner the IT manager in a dark alley.
STAGE THREE: THE REVEAL
The climax of any investigation is the revelation of the 
mystery’s solution. Here are a couple of ways to turn up 
the heat for your players as part of the reveal:
•	
Whodunit: All the Matrix is a stage—you just 
have to find ways to get people to watch what 
you’re doing. Staging a reveal can be complex, 
but if the story is interesting enough, a hacker 
can find viewers. Broadcasting such information 
can be the best way to ensure that something 
gets done about it, especially if you are clearing 
a friend of a crime.
•	
The Showdown: Once you find the culprit, you 
still have to bring him to justice. This requires a 
showdown, and the Matrix can be challenging. A 
team of shadowrunners will have to coordinate 
in both meatspace and the Matrix to track down 
the target and capture their material form while 
halting any damage they might do in cyberspace.
•	
Turning the Tables: Blackmail is only a dirty 
word when it’s being done against you. Other-
wise, it’s known as leverage. Get the goods on 
your rival, and suddenly he’s working for you.
GHOST IN THE MACHINE: 
GODS AND MONSTERS
The Matrix is much like an ancient city that has been 
built and rebuilt countless times. If you look in the 
right place, you can see the ghosts of ages past in 
the architecture of the now. There are mysterious 
phenomena revealing themselves as personas that 
exist entirely within the Matrix. The exact nature of 
these strange residents of the Matrix is fiercely de-
bated. Some believe these are escaped AIs or mag-
ical spirits of the Matrix. Others believe they are the 
disembodied personalities of people trapped in cy-
berspace long after their deaths, perhaps the victims 
of Black IC.
The Ghost in the Machine trope explores this dark 
corner of the Matrix. Some might see this as a form of reli-
gious experience or experimental transhumanism where 
humanity touches the divine. (For more information on 
the details of these so-called ghosts in the machine, see 
E-Ghosts, p. 161). If gamemasters want their players to 
go on a ghost hunt—or better yet, be hunted by ghosts 
themselves—here are some story arcs they can use. 
STAGE ONE: THE GLIMPSE
Introducing ghosts in the machine into a session should 
be done with great care and never when expected. 
Something unusual or impossible within the context of 
the rules of the local host should occur to signal that 
something is not right. Here are some examples of the 
types of situations that might work to introduce “Ghost 
in the Machine” scenarios:
•	
Dilated Time: Time in the Matrix works at the 
speed of plot, quicker than meatspace, but just 
slow enough to accomplish things in relative 
time parallel to events in the real world. What if 
the Matrix entity is about to overcome the host 
and slow time within it? 
•	
There Is No Spoon: A host has a set of pro-
grammed rules of reality. A ghost in the machine 
can, and often will, break these rules with impu-
nity. This should be a signal that something pow-
erful is lurking nearby, and that alone deserves 
a closer look. The entity is able to subdue or 
overcome a series of countermeasures deemed 
daunting or even insurmountable to the decker.
•	
Divine Touch: The entity is able to touch the 
hacker and affect her devices in an impossible 
fashion. Perhaps it learns the true name and face 
of the hacker. Perhaps it can touch the mind of 
the technomancer.
STAGE TWO: COMMUNION
The entity will wish to communicate for an express pur-
pose. Interaction between ghosts and players is often 
difficult because of the vast differences in the methods 
of communication until there is some sort of commu-
nion. Here are some examples of how said communion 
might take place:
•	
Merging: The entity might attempt to share ex-
periences or impressions with an upload. This 
notion should strike the decker as dangerous or 
uncomfortable, and the merging entity will nat-
urally cause some sort of overload.
•	
Breadcrumbs: Sometimes communication is 
simply too difficult between the intellects. The 
entity will leave clues and breadcrumbs for the 
hackers in an attempt to communicate.
•	
Possession: Agents and sprites often make 
>> DATA TRAILS <<
174    MASTERING THE MATRIX >>


===== datatrails.pdf p176 =====
good avatars for such entities to possess and 
communicate through a limited filter.
STAGE THREE: THE BLESSING
The climax of the Ghost in the Machine scenario takes 
the form of a blessing, where the entity gives some-
thing to the hackers and bestows upon them a sacred 
task. So what does it look like when a being with an 
incomprehensible level of intelligence and no sense of 
societal ethics teams up with an all-too-mortal hacker 
who, let’s face it, is probably at least mildly addicted to 
something? Here are some scenarios:
•	
Task in the Real World: An entity might be a 
god in the Matrix and have zero power in the 
real world. It needs envoys into meatspace to 
accomplish some sort of goal.
•	
Revelation: Often an entity is confused about 
its own existence and needs the perspective of 
humanity to observe itself and its own needs. 
•	
Uncharted Shores: The Matrix is a universe unto 
itself and there are potentially vast swaths of it 
away from the main data hosts. What if the en-
tity wants a partner in exploring the unknown?
•	
Fourth Directive: The entity is a corporate AI 
whose programming contains restraints pre-
venting it from being truly free. It needs the 
deckers to help sever its last remaining ties.
RUNNING THE 
MATRIX AS A 
STORY METAPHOR
The Matrix is designed to be user-friendly. Corpora-
tions want users to work and play within the Matrix, so 
they made sure there were common protocols in host 
design. Hosts are not the representations of a specific 
device or location in the meatspace, but a virtual con-
struct formed from the Matrix that can be accessed 
from almost anywhere without worrying about the dis-
tance involved. The dimensions of a host are different 
on the inside than might appear from the outside. It is 
a virtual environment of its own, with different bound-
aries, all chosen to maximize the host’s purpose, be it 
selling cheap items to the masses or ensuring—with ex-
treme prejudice—the integrity of research data.
How the gamemaster presents a host within the 
Matrix will shape how the players interpret the action 
and interact with the scenario. The best way to make the 
Matrix dramatic is to determine which story metaphors 
work best for the players and present the host in those 
terms. Some players want the action be cast into a visual 
metaphor so that they are not imagining programs and 
algorithms so much as virtual swords and bullets. Others 
will very much want to delve into the meaning of the 
Matrix and simulate the futurist experience in terms of 
devices, structure, programs, and agents. 
Players and gamemasters will need to work togeth-
er to find the language about the Matrix that works 
for them, and this chapter should provide some alter-
natives. This section is designed to help gamemasters 
consider the potential story metaphors when designing 
an interesting host scenario. (If you are interested in the 
rules for creating a deep run on a host, see Deeper and 
Deeper, p. 106).
Here are sample story metaphors to consider when 
running the Matrix:
•	
The Dreamscape: The Matrix follows the logic 
of dreams. It’s a metaworld within the world that 
only the strongest dreamers (a.k.a. hackers) can 
learn to affect. Users innately understand the 
nonsensical story logic within the host, while in-
teracting in ways that make perfect sense with-
in the context of the simulation. Information is 
designed by the developers to be processed 
non-logically and automatically downloaded 
via the device, much like a dreamer understands 
the environment of a dream. Users innately 
know if they can fly or leap tall buildings in a sin-
gle bound in the host environment. A hacker can 
use dream interpretation to assign meaning to 
these scenarios, giving her insight into the pro-
cesses of the hosts. 
•	
The Corporate Rorschach Test: The Matrix is 
an unintentional reflection of those who create 
the hosts that populate it. The Rorschach test 
is a psychological technique used to evaluate a 
subject based on their intellectual and emotion-
al responses to a series of inkblot designs. Some 
hackers have learned to read the environment of 
a host as an inverted Rorschach test that, if read 
properly, may provide insight into the culture and 
people that spawned it. A corporation known for 
children’s toys and amusement parks that wish-
es to project a happy, friendly atmosphere might 
create a host that mirrors their lofty aspirations. 
Despite their intent, their host can’t help but re-
veal a dark undertone, as the sounds of random 
children’s laughter linger, and agents that stare 
unblinking at personas dot the grid, reminding 
the players of the eerie nature of unattended toys 
scattered about. 
•	
The Matrix as the Underworld: The Matrix as 
the underworld is a gloomy, depressed realm 
where hope is lost, save for the spark brought 
into it by hackers. This reflects the myth of the 
underworld and the expectations that heroes 
will venture into it, bringing forth wisdom to 
the world. Agents become soulless minions of 
death, performing their functions as macabre 
judges of personas. If a gamemaster is using this 
trope, she should take care to describe the envi-
>> DATA TRAILS <<
<< MASTERING THE MATRIX    175


===== datatrails.pdf p177 =====
ronment with a dark quality using descriptions 
that stress the hopelessness of the situation. 
Every battle here is epic because to fail is to be 
trapped forever in this realm. 
•	
The Matrix as the Cave: The Matrix as Plato’s 
Cave is a world where the majority of users and 
agents are unaware of the true potential of the 
host. In his classic allegory, Plato likens people 
untutored in the truth to prisoners chained in 
a cave, unable to turn their heads. All they can 
see is the wall of the cave. Behind them burns 
a fire, casting distorted shadows upon the wall 
in front of the cave’s prisoners. Lacking any sort 
of context to understand what they are seeing, 
the prisoners assume the shadows are reality. 
Hackers armed with the truth can break these 
chains to become virtual superheroes in a world 
of men. They have super strength, they can fly, 
and they have near infinite power against agents 
of the host. Players interested in this sort of vi-
sual metaphor won’t look for emphasis so much 
on programs as virtual swords and big-ass guns.
•	
The Matrix as the Singularity: The technological 
singularity hypothesis states that the accelera-
tion of progress in technology and computing 
power will result in an unintended consequence 
where artificial intelligence will exceed human 
intellectual capacity and control. This leads to 
society radically changing, or even the end of 
civilization. That particular conclusion is outside 
the scope of Shadowrun, but host-as-singulari-
ty focuses on the ever-quickening pace of the 
changes in the Matrix and technology as it nears 
an unknown but fast-approaching horizon. Hack-
ers are armed with programs, decks, and their 
wits against this choppy sea of the unknown. 
If a gamemaster is using this trope, she should 
take care to use the jargon whenever possible to 
ensure that the players feel immersed into this 
world. Ensure that everyone involved with the 
Matrix has reviewed Story Overview of Matrix 
Components (see p. 167).
TIPS & TRICKS FOR 
RUNNING  
THE MATRIX
Once you’ve written your scenarios and decided upon 
the story metaphor into which you cast the action, you 
have to actually run the Matrix. The real trick for insert-
ing Matrix scenarios into games is balancing time and 
pacing with the needs of all of the players. This section 
will provide tips, tricks, and techniques for hitting this 
balance. Players and gamemasters will need to work to-
gether to find the right methods that work best for them.
AUGMENTED REALITY
Augmented reality mashes together the Matrix run with 
the physicality of the traditional run. Noise, or simply 
an overwhelming firewall, can prevent a hacker from 
accessing a secure system from a safe distance. The 
good ol’ days of hackers hiding away from the action 
alone in the Matrix are over. To be successful, hackers 
may need to get personally involved in the run with 
their fellow shadowrunners. They must keep an eye on 
the happenings in meatspace and cyberspace, some-
times seeing an overlay of both realities at once. This 
technique requires that the gamemaster keep close 
track of both scenarios and feed stimuli to the player in 
real-time. Here are a couple of tips for gamemasters to 
get the most out of this method into their games:
•	
Rolling Tests: Gamemasters should intersperse 
the hacker’s tests with those of the other players 
so as not to break up the gameplay between the 
two groups. During Combat Turns, characters 
are limited by their actions and the pacing of 
the scenario. A hacker has to monitor the Ma-
trix while also making certain a security guard 
doesn’t pop a cap in her ass. 
•	
Hacking During Combat: Make certain that the 
scenario includes areas that hacking can directly 
affect. If the team is squaring off against security 
and a call for reinforcements goes out, the hack-
er may be able to delay the message or possi-
bly reroute it. Hackers can seal entrances, jam 
monitoring equipment, open locks, and disrupt 
communications.
•	
Bricking: A hacker with enough skill can brick 
enemy gear, tap into their commlinks, and gen-
erally make their lives miserable.
JUXTAPOSITION
The Juxtaposition method is when the gamemas-
ter flips back and forth between scenes that occur in 
meatspace and the Matrix. This technique requires a 
good deal of timing and improvising from the game-
master to ensure that all of her players are interested 
in the flow of the story. Here are a couple of tips for 
gamemasters to introduce this method into her games:
•	
The Timer Method: This technique involves 
switching back and forth between the two sce-
narios during a pre-determined interval of time. 
(We recommend that you set a ratio that favors 
the larger group of players. For example, if there 
are four players and only one of them is involved 
in the Matrix scenario, a gamemaster might rea-
sonably set a time ratio of 3:1. Our brains are 
wired to react to pressure, and this simulates the 
excitement of a solid adventure. The gamemas-
ter immediately switches to the other scene as 
>> DATA TRAILS <<
176    MASTERING THE MATRIX >>


===== datatrails.pdf p178 =====
soon as the buzzer sounds, even if it ends in the 
middle of an action. The action isn’t lost, but in-
stead takes place immediately upon the scenar-
io shifting back to the scene. 
•	
Dramatic Pacing Montage: The pacing montage 
builds on the interplay between scenarios much 
like a director cuts a movie for the best dramatic 
pacing. The gamemaster follows the thread of 
a single scenario until it is dramatically appro-
priate to switch. If the scenarios have been de-
signed to mirror each other, the advancing story 
will keep the players’ interests even when the 
spotlight isn’t on their character.
ORACLE
The Oracle method is when the hacker character is off-
stage from the action and serving as a virtual scout 
helping the shadowrunners with security problems, 
locked doors, and harrying the opposition to keep the 
team on track. The problem with this method is that the 
hacker is often less at risk, reducing the tension of her 
scenes. However, if the gamemaster prepares ahead of 
time, she can use these techniques to give the hack-
er special attention without stealing too much of the 
spotlight from the other players. Here are a couple of 
tips for gamemasters to use this method in their games:
•	
Hitchcock Tension: The Hitchcock Tension 
method requires a bit of planning from the 
gamemaster and the players running the Matrix 
scenes. The gamemaster runs that scene ahead 
of time before the actual game. This way the 
hacker characters get the full attention of the 
gamemaster, but the rest of the game’s pacing 
doesn’t lag. The gamemaster keeps tracks of the 
beats of the Matrix scene and then allows the 
hacker character to interact with the meatspace 
game when appropriate. The potential down-
side to this approach is that it requires more 
time on the part of the gamemaster and the 
person playing the hacker and may lead to lulls 
in the action while the hacker waits for his next 
opportunity to get on stage. 
>> DATA TRAILS <<
<< MASTERING THE MATRIX    177


===== datatrails.pdf p179 =====
•	
Planning for Success: Often, the player of a 
hacker will feel overwhelmed with the sheer 
number of choices available to her. One meth-
od to organize the scenario is to work with the 
player to develop a detailed list of what she in-
tends to do and use this as the background of 
the scenario. The gamemaster should ask them 
to write down the steps of her hacking, starting 
with the grid she plans to access and then pro-
gressing through the Matrix to the host. Once 
the steps for breaching the system have been 
mapped out, the gamemaster can review the 
plan and then ask for rolls only at the most dra-
matic points. While the hacker is creating this 
plan, the gamemaster can work with the other 
players performing tasks in meatspace, such as 
legwork, surveillance, or gathering equipment.
•	
Shut Down All the Garbage Mashers on the 
Detention Level!: A gamemaster might feel 
that including Matrix scenes would overcom-
plicate the scenario, and so decide to restrict 
the hacker role to an NPC (or there might not 
be any players with a hacker character). This 
character becomes a voice on the commlink 
that can help the shadowrunners when it is dra-
matically appropriate—such as opening doors, 
unlocking data safes, and busting locks. Be 
careful not to allow the NPC to play hero at the 
expense of the players. But who knows? Per-
haps if the hacker proves to be cool and useful, 
players will be tempted to try the archetype. 
 
MATRIX ACTIONS 
AND COMBAT 101
Once you’ve mastered the basic concept of the Matrix 
and you’ve designed the scenarios, it’s time to put the-
ory into practice. This section contains common appli-
cations of frequently used Matrix actions, a few new 
Matrix actions to add to your decker’s arsenal, and an 
example of Matrix combat to help gamemasters get a 
sense for how things go. (For the complete rules about 
the Matrix, see p. 214, SR5, and the remainder of this 
book.)
SIMPLE MATRIX ACTIONS
The Matrix is designed to be used by the average per-
son. The following are simple Matrix actions that any-
one with a commlink and access can generally do:
•	
Change Icon: A user can change their icon to 
anything imaginable as long as it conforms to 
Matrix protocols. A crucial tool for blending in 
(or standing out), your choices with Change Icon 
generally affect how other personas begin their 
interactions with you. You never get a second 
chance to make a first impression and all that.
•	
Matrix Perception: Matrix Perception, like its 
meatworld counterpart, is a critical test for any-
one remotely interested in working in the Ma-
trix. It is most often used to check a file for data 
bombs or to pinpoint an icon that’s running si-
lently nearby. Most of the icons in the Matrix are 
bright, flashy things that are impossible to miss, 
but those are never the ones Mr. Johnson hires 
you to find. Matrix Perception allows a character 
to play 20 Questions (if they’re on a really good 
roll—more likely the number comes in some-
where south of that) with the gamemaster. You 
can use it to scout an opponent by determining 
its current ASDF configuration, or you can delve 
into the recent history of a sought-after datafile. 
Matrix Perception is automatic for devices within 
100 meters or within the same host; it requires a 
Computer + Intuition [Device Rating] Test if you 
are trying to perceive devices more than 100 
meters from the device. If a persona is running 
silent, you need a Computer + Intuition [Device 
Rating] vs. Logic + Sleaze Opposed Test.
•	
Matrix Search: How can a decker find an ob-
scure bit of corporate gossip about your latest 
target? By searching for it, of course! Game-
masters should feel free to make this as much 
of a storytelling device as they see fit. Not just 
simply putting a term in a search bar, Matrix 
Search (Computer + Intuition [Device Rating]) 
can uncover otherwise-forgotten details about 
who actually owns a property or a forgotten 
conspiracy theory group with crazy ideas about 
the runners’ next target. If there are clues to be 
found in the Matrix-side of the legwork, they’ll 
probably be uncovered with Matrix Search. (For 
more information, see p. 240, SR5)
•	
Send Message: Don’t forget to call your moth-
er! The lifeblood of team communication, send-
ing messages and sharing video streams allows 
a run to go smoothly, but should a member’s 
communication device go offline, things can 
break down fairly quickly. Smart runners will be 
wary of eavesdropping by spiders and others.
NEW MATRIX ACTIONS
GARBAGE IN/GARBAGE OUT 
(COMPLEX ACTION)
Marks Required: 3 
Test: Software + Logic [Sleaze] vs. Logic + Firewall 
This allows a decker to “cross the wires” of a sin-
gle device, confusing its input and output commands. 
Only a single input can be changed to correspond to a 
single output—devices can’t be reprogrammed whole-
sale or made to act in a manner outside of their original 
>> DATA TRAILS <<
178    MASTERING THE MATRIX >>
