

===== runandgun.pdf p52 =====
coil compensation—but only, of course when it is out 
and braced against the user’s shoulder. It must be in-
stalled in the stock slot and requires a Simple Action to 
move in or out; there is a motorized version that makes 
folding and unfolding it a Free Action.
Foregrip (accessory): This is a handle you put on in 
the front of the weapon to give you a sturdier grip. It can 
be mounted on the Barrel or Underneath slots, and it can 
not be used on Pistols and Hold-outs. It provides 1 point 
of Recoil Compensation and adds 1 to the Concealabili-
ty of the weapon to which it’s attached.
Gecko grip (modification): Have trouble holding on 
to your gun? Then maybe you shouldn’t have one. But if 
that’s not an option, then try gecko grip, which makes 
your piece stick in your hand like, well, a gecko hanging 
on a wall. This gives your grip a bunch of tiny fibers that 
are awfully clingy to just about anything. The fibers can 
be turned on and off via wireless command if you have a 
smartgun—if not, pressing two buttons at the same time 
does the trick. The mod gives a +6 bonus on any tests to 
see if a character keeps grip on the gun. This can go on 
any weapon with a grip, whether they have a stock slot 
or not; if they have a stock slot, this takes it up.
Guncam (accessory): The device that launched a 
thousand stupid-ass MeFeed videos. Whatever the gun 
is pointing at, it records. Yeah, you don’t always want 
a record of what you’re about to shoot, but sometimes 
that footage is invaluable—whether you need to show 
Mr. Johnson what you managed to pull off, review foot-
age to help you plan your next move, or doctor what 
you filmed to make you look good, the video you film 
has plenty of possible uses. Its Device Rating fills in for 
any necessary stats. Guncams can be installed in the 
Top, Underneath, Barrel, Side, or Internal slots.
Hip pad bracing system (accessory): Some weapons 
are, quite simply, a huge load. This system allows you 
to move some of the weight of the weapon to your hip, 
distributing the weight more and letting you brace it bet-
ter. The end result is that the user gets 1 point of recoil 
compensation. It uses the stock slot.
Improved range finder (accessory): Laser range 
finders are standard equipment on smartlinks, but if 
you have the scratch you can make its range calculation 
functions even better. It combines three technologies—
microwave, laser, and radar—to give you an extreme-
ly accurate calculation of range. The effect of this is to 
reduce range modifiers by 1. This only can be used in 
weapons that have a smartlink; it can be positioned in 
any slot besides the one that has the smartlink. This bo-
nus cannot be combined with any bonuses from image 
magnification on the weapon.
Peak-discharge battery packs (accessory): For 
weapons that need a power source, this is it. It does not 
take up a slot; weapons that need it already have a spot 
for it. It charges at a rate of 1 power unit per 30 minutes. 
The number of power units used per shot is listed with 
each weapon. 
These packs come in three forms: power clips, which 
hold 10 power units and fit into a weapon like a clip 
would; satchel power packs that hold 20 power units, are 
about the size of a canteen, and are usually attached to 
belts, and power backpacks, which hold 30 power units 
and are worn on the back, of all places. Satchels and 
backpacks are attached to weapons with a self-recoiling 
cord that requires a Simple Action to attach.
Many hundreds of hours have gone into testing and 
refining the makeup of these batteries to make it so they 
are not susceptible to explosions. So no, you can’t use 
one as an improvised explosive device.
Safe target system (accessory): The goal of this sys-
tem is to avoid those situations where your mates are 
chewing you out for accidentally shooting them in the 
hoop. Using information about your teammates’ ap-
pearance and the electronics in their PAN, this system 
attempts to recognize when you are aiming at any spot 
within 1 meter of a friendly target. In these situations, the 
system locks the trigger, preventing you from firing. Once 
the friendly target isn’t at risk anymore, you can start fir-
ing again. Note that the system interprets risk broadly—if 
there is something between you and a friendly target, the 
system will lock you out, unless that “something” is an 
entire office building or Mt. Rushmore or something. 
The basic system can mark up to 10 RFID profiles (or 
GPS coordinates if you want to designate fixed locations 
as “safe”); for a few extra nuyen you can add more pro-
files. If you want a little more accuracy, allowing you to 
easily shoot the drekhead who stole your buddy’s com-
mlink without difficulty, then upgrade to the image rec-
ognition system. You’ll need a guncam or smartlink to 
use this function. The base image recognition allows you 
to enter up to 10 different visual profiles, which can be 
as broad as “anyone wearing the Ancients’ logo” or as 
narrow as precise scans of members of your team. As 
with the GPS/RFID system, you can spring for extra pro-
files if you need them.
The safe target system can be mounted on any loca-
tion besides the stock.
Slide mount (accessory): By installing this on the 
top, underneath, or side slots, you can make it much 
easier to install and remove items in these locations. 
Items may be taken on or off using a Simple Action.
Sling (accessory): For Special Forces troops, this is a 
sturdy piece of mesh or canvas custom-fitted to the user 
and positioned on the weapon in a way to ensure it can 
be readied as quickly as possible. For guerilla warriors, 
this might be a piece of rope, and old belt, or anything 
else that can be rigged up to help them keep from drop-
ping their weapon. No matter how complex or simple, 
the function is basic—it makes sure your weapon doesn’t 
fall to the ground when you’re running or diving from an 
explosion or in the middle of being shot or whatever. It 
may be shot out of your hands, but getting it ready again 
is a Simple Action. The sling does not take up any slots 
on a weapon.
>> ARSENAL <<
52    Weapon Accessories >>


===== runandgun.pdf p53 =====
Tracker (accessory): This is a customized RFID tag 
that combines the functions of security and stealth 
RFIDs, giving you the chance to track down your weap-
on if for some reason you don’t know where it is. Use 
the rules for RFID tags, p. 440, SR5; assume the tracker 
has the function of a security tag and a stealth tag. The 
tracker does not take up any slots in a weapon.
Underbarrel bola launcher (modification): Would 
your weapon be enhanced by the ability to throw out two 
balls connected by a thin rope that can entangle and trip 
up your opponent? If your answer is “no,” please go back 
and read the questions again. As the name indicates, this 
goes on the underneath slot, and it can only go on weap-
ons rifle-sized or larger The launched bola works in the 
same way as a regular bola (p. 27) as thrown by someone 
with Strength 5. It uses Heavy Pistol ranges, and wielders 
fire it with the Exotic Ranged Weapon (Bola) skill.
Underbarrel chainsaw (modification): Very useful in 
case you need to chop wood for a campfire while out on 
a run, or cut some lumber to repair floorboards.
Ha! Who are we kidding? This is there for those times 
when you might want to use a bayonet but would prefer 
something louder and messier. If you don’t know what 
times might require that, you haven’t been in the shadows 
long enough. Use the Exotic Melee Weapons (Chainsaw) 
skill for this; when used against a barrier, double its Dam-
age Value. It can only be mounted on the underneath slot 
and must be used on rifle-sized weapons or larger. Sorry 
for killing your dreams of a chainsaw pistol.
Underbarrel flamethrower (modification): We’ve 
known runners so fond of fire that they might mount one 
of these on an actual flamethrower. This can go on the 
underbarrel slot of a rifle-sized weapon. For rules cover-
ing flamethrower use, see p. 49.
Underbarrel grapple gun (modification): It’s a grap-
ple gun mounted on the underneath slot of a rifle-sized 
weapon or larger. No muss, no fuss. For grapple gun 
rules, see p. 449, SR5.
Underbarrel grenade launcher (modification): Give 
yourself the ability to lob grenades out there with your 
weapon. It can be mounted (say it with us now!) on the 
underneath slot of a rifle-sized weapon or larger. See 
p. 434, SR5, for more information on using grenade 
launchers.
Underbarrel weight (accessory): It may be a crude 
way to reduce recoil, but it still works. By placing some 
weight in the underneath slot of a weapon, you prevent 
the kick from being as severe as it would be otherwise. 
This provides 1 point of recoil compensation when us-
ing the weapon in Full Auto mode.
Weapon commlink (accessory): Once you get over 
the idea that using your commlink means touching it all 
the time, placing one in your weapon becomes a sen-
sible move. Your weapon becomes the heart of your 
PAN. Many users like to use this with the weapon per-
sonality mod.
Weapon personality (accessory): Does your gun 
need its own software complete with an artificial per-
RECOIL COMPENSATION COMPATIBILITY
Recoil compensation is important to anyone who likes to fill the air with lead. There are a number of options to reduce your recoil, 
but they are not all compatible with each other. Here’s a quick list of those options and which of the other options don’t stack with them. 
Remember that as with other accessories and modifications, accessories are also not compatible with each other—you can’t put the 
same item on twice and expect to double the benefit.
THIS OPTION…
DOES NOT STACK WITH…
Bipod
Foregrip, gyro mount, sling, tripod, underbarrel weight
Folding stock
Hip pad bracing system, shock pad, sling
Foregrip
Bipod, gyro mount, tripod, underbarrel weight
Gyro mount
Bipod, foregrip, tripod, sling, underbarrel weight
Hip pad bracing system
Folding stock, shock pad, sling
Shock pad
Folding stock, hip pad bracing system, shock pad, sling
Sling
Bipod, folding stock, gyro mount, hip pad bracing system tripod, underbarrel 
weight
Tripod
Bipod, foregrip, gyro mount, sling, underbarrel weight
Underbarrel weight
Bipod, foregrip, gyro mount, sling, tripod
>> ARSENAL <<
<< Weapon Accessories    53


===== runandgun.pdf p54 =====
sonality to provide information in a 
more chatty fashion instead of just pro-
viding numbers, crosshairs, and other 
similar data? Depends on how you func-
tion. If meta-to-meta interaction is how 
you prefer to get your information, you 
might want a weapon personality, which 
provides a metahuman-like interface 
so you can chat away. The guttural Neil 
the Ork Barbarian with its “scalped ‘em” 
grunt to tell you when you got a hit is 
especially popular.
AMMO
Not in the mood for a new gun, but 
still want a different experience with 
your firearm? Then load out some new 
ammo! Check out these options to add 
some extra pop or flare to your gun.
EX-EXPLOSIVE
What is better than something blow-
ing up? Something blowing up bigger 
of course. These little darlings pack a 
punch and always seem to get the job 
done. My hats off to the chummer who 
decided he needed a better boom in his 
life.
FRANGIBLE
Sometimes you want a bullet that can 
shoot through walls, other times you 
want something that will hurt the soft 
targets in range but leave the hardware 
alone. Frangible bullets can put some 
hurt on a metahuman target, but they 
break up when hitting something hard, 
meaning they won’t damage nearby 
metal-encased gear. Or armored-up 
trolls, so select it with caution.
FIREARM ACCESSORIES AND MODIFICATIONS
ITEM
AVAILABILITY
COST
Advanced safety system
4
600¥
Immobilization
6
100¥
Self destruct
6
200¥
Explosive self destruct
11F
400¥
Electro shocker
6R
350¥
Bayonet
4R
50¥
Concealed quick-draw holster
6
275¥
Extreme environment modification
8
Level x 1,500¥
Flashlight
Standard
2
50¥
Low light
4
200¥
Infrared
6
400¥
Folding stock
2
30¥
Foregrip
2
100¥
Gecko grip
6
100¥
Guncam
4
350¥
Hip pad bracing system
4
250¥
Improved range finder
6
2,000¥
Peak-discharge battery packs
Power clip
14F
400¥
Satchel power pack
16F
900¥
Power backpack
20F
2,500¥
Safe target system base
6
750¥
Additional set of RFID or GPS data (10 data sets)
6
25¥
Image recognition capabilities
8
300¥
Extra image profiles (10 profiles)
8
25¥
Slide mount
4
500¥
Sling
—
15¥
Tracker
4
150¥
Underbarrel Bola Launcher
8R
350¥
Underbarrel Chainsaw
10R
as chainsaw + 500¥
Underbarrel Flamethrower
as flamethrower 
+ 2
as flamethrower 
+ 200¥
Underbarrel Grapple Gun
8R
600¥
Underbarrel Grenade Launcher
10F
3,500¥
Underbarrel Weight
Weapon Commlink
as commlink
as commlink + 
200¥
Weapon Personality
8
250¥
>> ARSENAL <<
54    Ammo >>


===== runandgun.pdf p90 =====
Coyote and his followers, but Mother Nature stepped in 
and brushed aside the US forces like insects. 
The United States and the rest of the world were now 
on notice: magic was back. 
In the following decades, the nations and corpo-
rations of the newly anointed Sixth World conducted 
an arms race to secure their own magical arsenals. For 
combat tactics and doctrine, magic became the ulti-
mate wild card.
Every tactic and procedure at all levels, both military 
and civilian, was re-written to incorporate the magical 
threat. And because of the Ghost Dance War, military 
leaders had clear evidence of magic’s devastating pow-
er in combat. Small groups of magicians could easily 
destroy most military targets with spirits or spells from 
beyond visual range.
Those able to field significant amounts of magi-
cal assets found themselves with distinct advantages. 
Emerging nations such as Amazonia, the NAN, Tír na 
nÓg, and Tír Tairngire suddenly had military (and po-
litical) power disproportionate to their size and matéri-
el strength. Corporations such as Aztechnology, MCT, 
and Saeder-Krupp also benefited considerably from 
their magical assets. 
Magic also became the ultimate equalizer on the 
streets. A single, decently skilled magician or adept was 
often more than a match for common police or securi-
ty officers. Sometimes they could even make life tough 
for an entire tactical response team. Spells could take 
out multiple opponents, spirits shrugged off mundane 
attacks, adept powers turned people into combat ma-
chines, and astral projection offered advantages that 
couldn’t be countered by traditional means. Ritual 
magic was also thought so prevalent that thousands 
of unexplained homicides per year were attributed to 
it. Magicians not affiliated with “normal” society (read: 
spellcasters who were not properly licensed or reg-
istered) are still portrayed as something to be feared. 
This fear applied to both actual and perceived threats. 
This atmosphere of extreme fear and perceived danger 
made the general populace scared of any kind of magic, 
good or bad, which led to the strategy now known as 
“geek the mage first.”
To counter magical threats, most current doctrines/
rules of engagement utilize swift and overwhelming 
force against those even suspected of being magical. 
Tactics vary, but in most combat situations, priority is 
given to identifying and neutralizing magicians at the on-
set of any engagement. When friendly magicians aren’t 
available to counteract the threat, snipers and drones are 
favored tools to use against enemy magicians. 
Operational planners usually put magicians near 
the top of the list of high-priority targets next to, or 
even above, command and control elements. In the ci-
vilian world, similar procedures are used to deal with 
“rogue” magicians. Backed up by both national and 
corporate laws (with a healthy dose of anti-magic bias), 
law enforcement agents are often given a lot of discre-
tion on how to handle illegal magicians; even to the 
point of utilizing lethal force as an initial response to 
an encounter. 
WARFARE GONE DIGITAL
Until the development of wireless technology, the Ma-
trix’s impact on combat operations was minor com-
pared to magic. Despite unprecedented improvements 
in communications, the use of fiber-optic cables (key 
components in early Matrix technology) made these 
systems impractical or expensive for widespread field 
use. In a military or paramilitary operation, these sys-
tems were relegated to the rear echelons or in mobile 
command posts that avoided direct combat. 
With the development of first- and second-genera-
tion wireless technology, the Matrix gained a more sig-
nificant presence on the battlefield. Commlinks in par-
ticular increased communication abilities and allowed 
combat hackers to ditch bulky cyberdecks. 
The introduction of tactical networks (tac-nets) was 
one of the most significant contributions to the modern 
battlefield the new Matrix had to offer. More efficient 
than previous systems, tac-nets allowed members of a 
team or unit linked to a ‘net to gain unprecedented lev-
els of coordination so they could engage their enemies 
like never before. Any military, paramilitary, mercenary, 
or other groups (like shadowrunners) that could get their 
hands on them did so.
 But the new wireless Matrix was a double-edged 
sword. Wireless systems were also more vulnerable 
to attack. Communications, vehicles, weapons, and in 
some cases personal cybernetic augmentations could 
be compromised if not co-opted completely via remote. 
Tacticians quickly realized the potential of using the 
new Matrix as a first-strike option against enemy targets 
in the field. This has made the hacker (usually deckers) a 
key component of any modern combat operation. More 
and more hackers have become common sights on the 
front lines. This has led to interesting developments in 
many combat units and teams. While not quite up to par 
as dedicated combat members of the team, the hack-
ers have been forced to beef up their combat skills. It’s 
not unusual to see hackers provide direct support for 
other team members in addition to their intended role 
as cybercombatants. As a result, they’ve become prior-
ity targets. Right after the magician, the hacker is often 
second on enemy neutralization priorities. Especially if 
they’re good.
Technomancers are equally dangerous, but there 
are still trust issues that keep your Average Joe Street 
Rat from putting his life in the hands of one of these 
guys. While technos and deckers perform similar func-
tions, deckers are more accepted (and trusted) because 
their abilities come from a known source: technology. 
Scientists and researchers today still don’t know where 
>> TACTICS & TOOLS <<
90    Sixth World COMBAT TACTICS >>
