==== PDF 92 ====
can completely gel for whatever reason (arrogance, ego, 
previous beefs, take your pick). 
The second kind is the one most associated with 
runners, the permanent team. These are the runners 
who have banded together for the long-term and (usu-
ally) have found a way to work together à most of the 
time. By working together on a constant basis, every-
one learns how the others think, operate, and react in 
specific situations. This level of coordination is the goal 
of such teams. The problems with permanent teams are 
that with a set roster, the team may have some signifi-
cant gaps in capability. And since they depend on one 
another so muchùand have likely grown to care for each 
other to some extentùa lost team member can be diffi-
cult to recover from.
KNOW YOUR ROLE
There are certain key positions that need to be filled by 
people who know what theyÆre doing, no matter how 
each individual team is organized. Some roles might 
be shared between two or more runners, some runners 
may handle more than one role, but teams that last 
have every role covered.
Team Leader: Someone has to be in charge, period. 
Without someone calling the shots, coordination breaks 
down and people die. On most teams, the team leader 
is one of the direct combat-types with the skills neces-
sary to, well, lead. In this age of technology, however, 
more riggers and/or deckers have taken this role be-
cause theyÆre uniquely positioned through their decks or 
RCCs with PI-Tac technology to coordinate actions and 
responses. 
Direct Combatant: The team members who phys-
ically engage the enemy when combat becomes 
necessary. They include the usual hoop-kickers such 
as street samurai, combat adepts, mercs, tanks, or 
other specialistsùsnipers and the like. Whatever the 
strengths of the individual combatants, the team as a 
whole must be able to engage the enemy at all ranges. 
This means that at least one direct combatant should 
be able to engage at long range as well as having 
>> TACTICS & TOOLS <<
92    Realities of Tactical Teamwork >>


==== PDF 98 ====
contempt for anyone not of their gangùdictate how 
they approach confrontation and combat.
Preferred fighting methods can also dictate what 
tactics are used. Go-gangers, such as the Ancients, 
base their tactics on the use of vehicles. Thrill gangers 
may prefer a signature style of attackùthe use of fire by 
the Halloweeners in Seattle, for example. As with any 
adversary, taking the time to learn how a group thinks 
can make all the difference in the world when the time 
comes to fight them.
APPLYING 
THE LESSONS
Combat, specifically small-unit tactics, is not just some 
abstract concept in Shadowrun, Fifth Edition. There are 
some specific, basic maneuvers any shadowrunner 
team can perform to receive in-game benefits during 
general combat situations. These come in the form of 
combat maneuvers. While not every combat situation 
can be accounted for, the maneuvers listed in this sec-
tion can be used in a variety of combat situations and 
will enable players to expand their combat options and 
foster teamwork. 
COMBAT TEAMWORK
To receive the bonuses for a specific combat maneuver, 
a team cannot simply say ôwe are doing thisö and then 
apply the benefits. The specific combat maneuvers list-
ed here require a team to make a Combat Maneuver 
Test to determine whether or not they earn the bonus-
es, and the gamemaster should add or subtract modi-
fiers based on how well the team set themselves up to 
carry out the maneuver. All maneuvers are considered 
optional and are used at the gamemasterÆs discretion. 
COMBAT MANEUVER TESTS
Combat Maneuver Tests are based on the standard 
teamwork skill listed on p. 49, SR5. Before any combat 
maneuvers are attempted, the team will have to desig-
nate a leader to order and/or coordinate the maneuver. 
The leader in this case will be the primary roller for the 
test with the rest of the team contributing. 
To perform a Combat Maneuver Test, the designated 
leader needs to have the Small Unit Tactics Knowledge 
skill. They roll a Small Unit Tactics + Intuition Test. Any 
team members who also have the Small Unit Tactics skill 
can join on a teamwork test (or they can default on the 
test, making an Intuition û 1 Test), making a roll and ap-
plying their hits per the teamwork tests rule. The team 
leader may use their Leadership skill to direct one team 
member per maneuver as described on p. 142, SR5). 
Ordering a Combat Maneuver can be done by verbal 
command, which is a Free Action. The Combat Maneu-
FIGHTING THE CHAOS: 
WHEN THERE ARE NO TACTICS
Knowing how to move a squad through a war zone or adapt 
to your opponentÆs tactics are useful skills, but sooner or later 
youÆre going to come up against an enemy whoÆs embraced the 
principle of pure chaos in combat. Those who fight this way 
are either tactical geniuses or certifiable madmenùeither 
way you will have no idea what to expect; chaos is, by nature, 
awfully to predict. So what do you do when faced with such 
adversaries? ThereÆs no single answer; youÆre going to have 
to get creative. Fortunately, there are some solid principles on 
which to base your creativity. 
1.	Have a plan B à and C, D, E, all the way through Z. Chaos 
is to be expected in any combat, and while having a plan is 
important, itÆs just as important to know when the plan is a 
bust and itÆs time to move on to the next one. 
2.	Maintain adaptability and flexibility. Just as itÆs important 
to have multiple plans, itÆs important to be able to adapt 
your actions as needed to face new threats or obstacles. 
Assess the situation and look for the enemyÆs weaknesses 
or a way out. 
3.	Know when itÆs time to call it. In every combat situation 
thereÆs always a chance your survival will depend on giving 
up your objective. Which is why knowing when to back off 
and bug out is vital. Sure, living to fight another day may tick 
off your Ms. Johnsonùit might even hurt your street rep in 
the short run. But few tacticians will argue that being alive 
gives you a lot more options for making things right than 
being dead does. 
4.	DonÆt try and fight chaos with chaos. Contrary to what 
popular media says, going all out often does nothing besides 
get you killed. Fighters who win and teams that last use solid 
plans and stay focused and controlled on the battlefield. 
Bonsai charges or berserker rages are useless unless they 
are part of a well-thought-out strategy. Someone ôgoing 
Ramboö against a superior force accomplishes nothing 
unless sheÆs acting as a diversionùdrawing enemy fire so 
the rest of her team can withdraw in good order. Or achieve 
the objective by a different route. 
5.	Stay together! This doesnÆt necessarily mean proximity; it 
means that a team has to continue working together until 
the bitter end. Modern tech and other means may allow a 
team to disperse, but they still must continue to coordinate 
their efforts. Teams, not lone wolves, are what survives in 
the long run. 
>> TACTICS & TOOLS <<
98    Applying the Lessons >>


==== PDF 103 ====
PERISCOPE CAM
An inexpensive, hand-held sensor package used to 
look around corners or over top of obstacles. Image 
link is standard and it comes with limited upgrading 
capabilities. It can be accessed wirelessly or viewed di-
rectly through a small viewfinder at the base. 
CAPACITY
AVAIL
COST
1-3
10R
Capacity x 600Ñ
BATTERING RAMS
Sometimes, when a maglock pass key or a lock pick 
just canÆt get the job done, a more robust method be-
comes necessary. Popular with entry teams, battering 
rams range from hunks of metal to high-tech wireless 
devices. Battering rams are not recommended for use 
as a melee weapon but can be used as such (use Ex-
otic Melee Weapon (Battering Rams) skill, assuming 
you had the foresight to select it). Battering rams use 
Strength + Agility for the attack test (see Destroying 
Barriers, p.197, SR5).
Standard Ram: A metal tube weighing approximately 
20 kilograms with a blunted end and handles along the 
sides, this is a no-frills entry tool that relies on the userÆs 
Strength for breaching. The standard ram is normally 
used by one individual, but heavier versions are available 
and can be used by two average humans.
ACC
REACH
DAM
AP
AVAIL
COST
4
ù
(STR+2)P
û1
10R
2,000Ñ
Fluid-Motion Ram: The same as the standard 
battering ram, but it includes an internal ten-liter liquid 
reservoir. When used, the ram is swung backwards and 
then forward to strike the target. On impact the internal 
fluid in the ram creates extra momentum that increases 
the impact damage. Very useful against more durable 
doors, but using it requires two average-size humans or 
one average-size troll.
ACC
REACH
DAM
AP
AVAIL
COST
5
1
(STR*+3)P
û1
10R
3,500Ñ
*Strength Rating to be used is 
(combined Strength of all users) / (number of users)
>> TACTICS & TOOLS <<
<< the Tools of the Trade    103


==== PDF 104 ====
Pneumatic Ram: Also known as the P-Ram, a 
pneumatic ramÆs breaching power comes from a large, 
battery-powered pneumatic piston. A P-Ram is too 
large and heave to be swung. The quad-legged device 
is securely positioned at the door or barrier before 
operation and triggered by a touch pad or wirelessly. Its 
power comes at the expense of mobility; it requires a 
four-person team of average humans to deploy. 
ACC
REACH
DAM
AP
AVAIL
COST
6
ù
16P
û4
18R
10,000Ñ
Shock Ram: Users call it the Shock Knocker. ItÆs 
a shock ram is designed to disable electronic locks 
or defenses when it breaches a door or barrier. Four 
large conductive spikes protrude from the ramÆs head 
that penetrates the barrier to deliver the charge. A 
metahuman in contact with the barrier or the spikes must 
resist shock damage per normal rules. Shock rams can 
be wirelessly discharged. Though an effective breaching 
tool, a shock ram requires frequent maintenance and 
constant monitoring, as repeated use can damage the 
mechanism and insulating protective casing. A glitch on 
a use test results in the batteries failing; a critical glitch 
results in a shock to the operator. 
ACC
REACH
DAM
AP
AVAIL
COST
4
1
(STR+2)P 
+ 12(e)
û3
10R
15,000Ñ
BLAST SHIELD
The blast shield is a two meter by one meter vari-
able-geometry shaped charge consisting of thermite 
strips and several high-explosive devices. Handle 
straps in the center allow it to be carried and used like 
a shield until itÆs deployed. Adhesives or magnets can 
secure the blast shield to any surface. The charge can 
be detonated with a timer or remotely. To use as a me-
lee weapon, wielders must have Exotic Weapon (Blast 
Shield) skill; the accuracy rating of the item is 4. 
DAM
AP
BLAST
AP
AVAIL
COST
20P
ù
Target
û4
8R
20,000Ñ
ARES PED (PERSONAL  
EXTRICATION DEVICE) MARK III
Originally called the ôbody bag,ö the PED is a means 
to transport unconscious or immobile individuals thatÆs 
marketed to the general public as a lifesaving device. 
Essentially a flexible bag of woven Kevlar, the PED of-
fers protection roughly equivalent to medium armors, 
and it is available in sizes to fit all metatypes. The PED 
can form an airtight seal and sufficient insulation to 
protect in hot, cold, or toxic environments; a tank with 
sufficient oxygen to survive an hour is optional. Emer-
gency GPS beacons are standard. 
ARMOR RATING
AVAIL
COST
12
10R
2,500Ñ
ULTRA-GLIDE INDUSTRIAL LUBRICANT
ImpZetaChem initially intended to develop an innovative 
industrial-grade degreaser. On paper and in computer 
modeling, thatÆs exactly what they did. But when they 
tested their creation, they discovered the viscous liquid 
not only didnÆt remove grease, it was itself almost im-
possible to remove without specialized solvents. More 
importantly, any surface coated with their experimental 
cleaner became for all practical intents and purposes 
friction-free. ImpZetaChem wasted no time in rebrand-
ing their failed cleaner as an industrial lubricant. Though 
chemically improbable, Ultra-Glide worksùthe coating 
produces a zero-friction surface that all but eliminates 
wear and heat in machinery. Sold to consumers in jugs 
and spray cans, Ultra-Glide is popular with security pro-
viders who use it to coat approaches to potential breach 
points. It can also be used in squirt weapons or in stan-
dard paint grenades (applicable skill tests apply). To move 
across a surface (per meter) coated with Ultra-Glide re-
quires an Gymnastics + Agility (3) [Physical] Test, or an 
Agility (4) Test to hold on to an Ultra-Glide coated item. 
AVAIL
COST
12
30Ñ (per liter)
HOLD-FAST ADHESIVE SPRAY
Hold-Fast was developed at MIT&T as an effort to 
meetùand cash in onùDunkelzhanÆs call for a non-le-
thal alternative to conventional firearms. Its intend-
ed purpose is to quickly immobilize subjects without 
harming them. Though initially rejected by the Draco 
Foundation for ônot meeting the necessary criteria,ö 
Hold-Fast was adopted by Lone Star after their own in-
dependent trials, conducted on the streets of several 
CAS cities, proved it to be effective in apprehension 
and crowd control. Hold-Fast is a liquid that is deliv-
ered through a sprayer not unlike a fire extinguisher. 
Once exposed to oxygen, the liquid hardens to form a 
clear plastic-like shell in about thirty seconds. Standard 
Hold-Fast become brittle after two hours, while the 
long-lasting formula is stable until removed with a sol-
vent. Use Taser ranges for Hold-Fast sprayer. Breaking 
free of Hold-Fast requires a Strength (4) Test. 
ACC
DAM
AP
AMMO
AVAIL
COST
û2
Special
ù
10
12
50Ñ
PERSONAL INTEGRATED 
TACTICAL NETWORK
The PI-Tac (a.k.a. P-Tac, orùto old timersùTac-Net) is the 
latest generation of personal tactical network. Used by 
both security and military forces, PI-Tac units are now 
available to civiliansùonce said civilian has passed a 
background check and been issued a permit. The Tac-Net 
concept is not new; team networking devices of one sort 
>> TACTICS & TOOLS <<
104    the Tools of the Trade >>


==== PDF 105 ====
or another have been around for decades. However all 
previous ænets were add-ons that linked sensors and other 
components that werenÆt necessarily compatible, result-
ing in a complex mash of patches subject to malfunctions. 
PI-Tacs are self-contained, plug-in units designed from 
the group up to integrate with a commlink, cyberdeck, 
or rigger command console to form a shared PAN/WAN. 
PI-Tac enhances team coordination and effectiveness 
with streamlined simplicity and comes in three levels of 
sophistication. Strictly speaking, only the most basic level 
is legally available for civilian use. The benefits of using PI-
Tac are substantial, but gamemasters should remember 
that PI-Tac is wireless by nature, which makes it a target 
for hackers. All PI-Tac models include: 
ò	
Real-time GPS location software
ò	
Universal image and audio link that can access any 
image sources from within the network, including 
all external sensors and personal augmentations
ò	
Team Biomonitor
ò	
Weapon status indicator (ammo count, opera-
tional condition, possible incursion)
ò	
ôEnhanced Situational Awarenessö (bonus to all 
Perception Tests, based on level)
Note that the maximum number of team members (includ-
ing drones) on a particular Ænet at one time equals DR x 1.5.
LEVEL I
The basic, civilian Level PI-Tac is popular with the ex-
treme-sport set including combat re-enactors or ama-
teur urban/combat brawl leagues and even big/game 
hunters. While the Level I comes with only the basic 
functions, it provides users with a +1 to all Perception 
Tests, including audio and visual. 
MODEL
DR
AVAIL
COST
Renraku Taka
4
12R
115,000Ñ
LEVEL II
The Level II is intended for use by security, law en-
forcement, and/or standard military forces. Unit cost 
makes use of the Level II for routine security and law 
enforcement impractical. Thus the Level IIs are usually 
assigned only to special tactical response units. Level 
II includes the basic functions of Level I, with upgrades 
and additions as follows: 
ò	
Host unit enhancement. One half the device 
rating can be used to enhance either the firewall 
or processing ratings of the host device. 
ò	
Trauma module. Worn on the chest under any 
armor, this flat plastic plate can be loaded with 
one dose any drug of the usersÆ choice and 
programed to automatically deliver the drug 
under user-set conditions. 
ò	
Enhanced situational awareness. Provides a +2 to 
all Perception Tests, including audio and visual, 
along with a +1 bonus to all Sneaking tests.
ò	
Enhanced Team Leader Coordination. This allows 
a designated team leader to coordinate combat 
maneuvers as a simple rather than complex 
action and to transfer five initiative points to one 
select team member on the network. 
ò	
Combat Mode. + 1 to one of the following com-
bat skills of the playerÆs choice: Close Combat, 
Automatics, Longarms, Pistols, Unarmed Com-
bat. Player can switch to a different skill during 
combat as a simple action.
MODEL
DR
AVAIL
COST
Novatech 
Tactician
5
18R
325,000Ñ
LEVEL III
Designed for use by the most elite military and corpo-
rate units, the unauthorized use of the Level III unit or 
unlicensed possession of such a unit is considered a 
felony by the Corporate Court and most national gov-
ernments. Level III includes the basic functions of Lev-
els I and II, with upgrades and additions as follows:
ò	
Upgraded host unit enhancement. The full de-
vice rating can be used to enhance both the fire-
wall and processing power of the host device. 
ò	
Enhanced Team Leader Coordination (upgraded). 
This allows a designated team leader to coordi-
nate combat maneuvers as a Simple rather than 
Complex Action and to transfer ten points from 
their initiative score to one team member on the 
network or five points to two team members. 
ò	
Enhanced situational awareness. Provides a +3 
to all Perception Tests, including audio and visu-
al and +2 to Sneaking and Tracking Tests. 
ò	
Combat Mode. + 2 to one of the following com-
bat skills of the playerÆs choice: Closed Combat, 
Automatics, Longarms, Pistols, Unarmed Com-
bat. Player can switch to a different skill during 
combat as a simple action. 
ò	
Remote and limited access to vehicles and 
drones linked into the network. This allows the 
team leader, or any other designated team 
member (consider them to have three marks 
on any vehicle while subscribed to the network) 
can remotely access and have limited control 
over a vehicle or drone by accessing their dog-
brains. As long as the units are operational, sim-
ple commands such as ôgo to this locationö or 
ôattack this targetö can be issued in the event a 
rigger is rendered unconscious or dead.
MODEL
DR
AVAIL
COST
ComPac-Esprit 
General
6
18F
855,000Ñ
>> TACTICS & TOOLS <<
<< the Tools of the Trade    105


