

===== datatrails.pdf PDF 55 =====
Deckmaster prepared his cyberdeck carefully. He had 
been a past master of the Matrix, a virtuoso of working 
programs. He had wielded IC picks of white-hot titani-
um and progs of hellfire. IC melted away from him like 
a tropical heatwave. Demand for his services had been 
huge.
Then came the changes in the Matrix. The new se-
curity waves. The different grids. GOD ascendant. Sud-
denly, having a hot ’link and a fistful of sweet apps didn’t 
cut it any longer. The posers with their talk of IC Pick Art 
and strict study of the source and changes came back to 
power. Those things just ate away at Deckmaster’s par-
tying time.
Then the cash ran out. It always did, but this time 
there were no more gigs. No more shadowrunners 
searching for him. No more paydata falling out of the 
databases like manna from heaven. He’d had to scrimp, 
save, wheel, deal, steal, and otherwise fight for his sur-
vival in the shadows.
Then luck came, an extraction gone wrong, a dead 
decker. A loose cyberdeck filled with wonderful warez. 
Deckmaster, loving his new street name, would finally 
be back on top, demanding top nuyen. A few paydata 
scores, some new datamonger contacts, a new rep. He 
stroked the Microdeck Summit and smiled. All would be 
his again. Getting the deck to work with him had been 
hard, requiring specialized tools, research, and more 
than one bribe to hardware experts to find out why it 
was temperamental. The hardware restrictions had only 
recognized the old owner. But a bit of brute force had 
fixed that. Hopefully he’d be able to afford a new cyber-
deck soon—the case on this one was cracked, and the 
design was boring anyway. Even in mint condition, this 
thing wouldn’t look good at the clubs.
Deckmaster dove once again full bore into the Ma-
trix, full-on hot-simsense style, the only way to fly. His 
new persona was chromed to a high finish, changing 
away like a pinball machine and glistening with gold 
lights. He chose a random place and slammed the picks 
into place, chipping the IC away. It took more effort and 
adjustments of the progs to work right, but he was more 
than willing to do what it took. It sure beat life eating 
unflavored, unheated nutrisoy. Knowledge would grant 
him power once again, and this place, Damballa Investi-
gations and Investments (whatever they might be), was 
just the start.
He idled around, downloading everything that 
looked even remotely interesting. Let the datamon-
ger sort through it—that’s what he’s for, after all. Soon, 
however, he felt like he was being watched. He shifted 
his perception around, spotting the icon of a strikingly 
handsome man in a black chrome suit who started to 
talk when Deckmaster spotted him. 
“Chummer, you came to the wrong neighborhood,” 
the persona said, his violet eyes sparkling coldly. Deck-
master had only moments before he saw the mouth 
open impossibly wide and flames shot out, sending 
shockwaves of brain-destroying code down the connec-
tion.
CYBER SOLUTIONS 
BY CYBERPROGRAMS
POSTED BY: GLITCH
I had originally tapped Slamm-0! to write here, but first 
I got something about artistic coding in the modern 
Matrix, then I got something that compared the cyber-
programs of today to the sport of cricket. I decided it 
would be best to write this on my own.
>	
Hey now, cricket is a wonderful sport.
>	
Goat Foot
Hardware and software have to go hand-in-hand to 
allow people like us to make our mark on the Matrix, 
and that is as true today as ever. Making hosts bend to 
our very will is not easy, thanks to all that has been done 
to hedge in the liberty that was the old Matrix with new 
security and restrictions. The Matrix is now designed to 
make everyone good little victims for the megas’ bene-
fits. While the new protocols have changed a lot, infor-
mation is still power, and it still demonstrates a tangible 
urge to be free, as the cost of passing data around gets 
cheaper every day.
So with Slamm-0! falling down on the job, it falls to 
me to give everyone a quick overview of all the pro-
DATA TRAILS
KILLER APPS  
& RAZOR FORMS
54    KILLER APPS AND RAZOR FORMS >>


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 56 =====
grams that affect shadowrunners. I’ll start with the low-
est common denominator: commlinks and their apps.
Actually, there isn’t anything “low” about commlinks, 
especially from an information-gathering or profit point 
of view. A large number of people practically live with 
their commlinks (and those with implanted models actu-
ally do so), and they typically run the entire PAN of their 
owners. Add to that shopping patterns, bank records, 
personal pleasure habits, social networking, and so on, 
and you’ve got a poorly secured smorgasbord of data 
for someone doing legwork. And the apps people use 
just make it easier, as most of them are designed to prop 
up the consumerist sentiments and activities of which 
the corps are so fond. There are so many apps, some 
with a culture of their very own growing around them, 
that no one can track them all. Some apps are even sta-
tus symbols in their own right, as important to users as 
the brand of ’link they’re running, while others can be 
troubling for us. The major one that everyone is wor-
ried about is the classic PANICBUTTON!™, an enhanced 
emergency calling system that makes priority calls that 
are monitored by 911, 999, and 112 operators (and all 
the other numbers there are in the world), as well as pri-
ority service from various emergency companies. For a 
monthly fee, you only have to push a button for nearly 
immediate response, with only a virtual molly-guard to 
prevent accidental calls. 
>	
Part of the contract is that the user shares GPS locations, 
access to audio and video recording from all devices in 
the customer’s PAN, and a direct dump of relevant data 
to the BUTTONPUSHER!™ covering a period from a day 
before the button is pushed all the way until two weeks 
after the company informs the person that they will stop 
monitoring them. All at a modest monthly fee. Oh, and 
that’s just the large print.
>	
Hannibelle
There are, of course, billions of absorbing little games 
out there, played by regular corp drones and shadowrun-
ners alike. They can have a useful function—AR games 
that allow a person to keep an eye on what they’re do-
ing, sort of, while preventing boredom from eating away 
at them can maintain focus on those long stakeouts. I 
don’t use them while on the job, but in my downtime I’m 
fond of Spirit Popper. I’m not looking for new people to 
play with, though, so no invites please.
Legal cyberprograms come next. They’re common 
and ubiquitous, but still potentially useful. They serve 
more as a reminder that cyberdecks are designed and 
used for utility and maintenance of grids and hosts rath-
er than outright hacking. The majority of people using 
cyberdecks are computer techs slaving away far and 
below security spiders and combat deckers that fill the 
shadows and bad ’trid shows. While smaller in variety, 
there are a lot of huge brand-name programs doing sim-
ilar jobs. They, like cyberdecks, are specialist tools that 
require extensive skills that border on artistry.
Illegal cyberprograms—the things most of us here 
are interested in—are the things that make datatheft and 
combat hacking possible. Sure, most of them are com-
bat programs (spirits, far too many attack programs!), 
but a good number are utilities that expand the variety 
of options available to deckers attempting to get by with 
their wits and onboard software. A small number, de-
signed by the shadow market, even incorporate ideas 
from commlink apps.
In the end, though, it isn’t about what tools deckers 
have as much as how they use them. Skill, more than 
ever, matters on the battlefields of the Matrix. 
>	
And thank Ghost for that! We actually got some of the 
damn kids off my lawn!
>	
Bull
GAME INFORMATION
COMMLINK APPS
Simple little programs, apps are useless for hacking 
against other devices or hosts. They usually only en-
hance a user’s augmented reality or virtual reality ex-
perience, with a few minor options for support pro-
grams. A commlink can run as many apps as half its 
Device Rating, rounded up.
AR Games: Typically casual games that are displayed 
in augmented reality, allowing a user to enjoy them as 
a pastime while also still somewhat paying attention to 
reality. The number on the market is huge, with some 
<< KILLER APPS AND RAZOR FORMS    55


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 57 =====
older flatscreen and trid games being modified to run 
on commlinks.
Diagnostics: An ongoing self-evaluation system 
that monitors all the devices in a user’s PAN, giving 
constant vital statistics on their behavior. Popular with 
computer-literate and interested users who enjoy trying 
to squeeze every last bit of usefulness out of devices, 
they are also popular in keeping people aware of attacks 
against their PAN in a manner similar to a biomonitor.
P2.1: A dramatic update to the old P2.0 system put 
into place by Horizon, this social networking app mon-
itors and supports all other social networks that a per-
son might use, incorporating it all into a dramatic web 
of information. It also generates a P-Score that is a major 
piece of status in a lot of virtual places and within Hori-
zon as a whole.
Theme Music: An algorithm that constantly moni-
tors the owner of the PAN in all their interactions with 
devices. Taking this data, it attempts to determine the 
emotional state of the person and generates a playlist of 
songs to better support said user, either enhancing the 
feelings or dampening them. Essentially the mood ring 
of the Sixth World.
Ticker: A series of commlink apps that provide an 
information feed from a specified source, the vast ma-
jority being legitimate, such as stock markets and news 
organizations. Some shadow services also use these 
apps to give details on other shadowrunners, fixers, Mr. 
Johnsons, police response times, and current payment 
rates for a variety of services and bribes. Ticker reduc-
es the time for subject-related Matrix Searches in half. 
Obviously, there are a great many topics out there that 
don’t generate enough traffic to merit an information 
feed—for example, you can’t subscribe to a feed with 
up-to-the-minute news about Medieval Europe when 
Mr. Johnson sends you after a weird-looking cup and 
expect results to come flooding in.
COMMON 
CYBERPROGRAMS
Originally developed to legally work with networks, 
hosts, and grids, some of these programs are quite 
useful for deckers if they have a little bit of imagination.
Bootstrap: An IT expert’s tool of choice when work-
ing with boot code of a device. Corrupted by many hack-
ers, Bootstrap allows for hidden commands to be input 
into the device after the next reboot. Popular options 
include announcing the location of the device when 
it connects to the Matrix, adjusting the processing of 
the device so that the default device attributes are the 
choice of the user, annoying the user with constant de-
mands for ownership permissions, and making a record 
of every action on the device. This cyberprogram allows 
for a variety of tasks to be set up in the boot record by 
way of a Format Device action rather than just setting the 
device up to no longer function.
Search: When loaded, this cyberprogram tailors the cy-
berdeck’s search algorithms to match the specific iconogra-
phy of the host, making the decker’s Matrix Search results 
more likely to contain the paydata he’s looking for. This is 
quite popular with Mr. Johnsons, who often provide copies 
with pre-loaded search requirements that are programmed 
to self-destruct after use, so that they can only be run once. 
The program provides 2 extra dice on a Matrix Search ac-
tion when looking for specific data on a host that contains 
that data. There is no bonus is if the decker is searching for 
something that originates from outside the host.
Shredder: Designed to assist in erasing files and all 
their redundant back-up options that might be around 
inside a host and grid that the host inhabits, Shredder 
adds 2 to a cyberdeck’s Data Processing attribute for 
the purpose of deleting a file with the Edit File action. 
It functions by entering a large amount of random junk 
data into designated files, overwriting them repeatedly 
to help deter attempts at recovering them. A nice secu-
rity option that is legal for users to use. Recovering a file 
that has been Shredded (or destroyed by a Data Bomb, 
for that matter) requires constant access to the host or 
grid the file was originally on, and a Computer (File Re-
covery) + Logic [Mental] (18, 1 week) Extended Test, 
which explains why offline back-ups are quite popular.
HACKING 
CYBERPROGRAMS
Illegal, horrible pieces of code designed to work in an-
tisocial methods against the legal and proper users of 
the Matrix, its various grids and hosts, and the whole-
some and honest protectors in GOD. But enough about 
the positive things about these programs ...
Cat’s Paw: A low-offensive attack program that dis-
tracts the user instead of damaging the device he is us-
ing, Cat’s Paw is useful to prevent a user from performing 
Matrix actions while not bricking the device they may be 
using. This program fills the AR display or VR experience 
with annoying errors, spam pop-ups and pop-unders, 
or other distracting garbage. On a successful Data Spike 
action (p. 239, SR5), instead of doing damage, the pro-
gram generates a negative dice pool modifier equal to 
two plus the number of marks the user has on his target. 
Marks added or removed after using Cat’s Paw will also 
modify the penalty accordingly.
Cloudless: Not comfortable with your data stored 
only in the Matrix’s cloud? This program uses legacy 
code from previous incarnations of the Matrix to place 
data in physical media and physical media only. In ad-
dition to saving a file, it allows the user to use a suc-
cessful Edit File action to move a file off the Matrix into 
the memory of a single designated device. This test is 
an Opposed Test, using the normal rules for Edit File (p. 
239, SR5).  The Public grid has a dice pool of 6, local 
grids a dice pool of 8, and global grids a dice pool of 10 
for the purposes of this test.
>> DATA TRAILS <<
56    KILLER APPS AND RAZOR FORMS >>


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 58 =====
Crash: One thing deckers have learned about the 
new Matrix protocols is that the ability to force devices 
to reboot can be very beneficial. Crash is there to help 
deckers who want to do this. When running, it attempts 
to fill a targeted device with an exceptional amount of 
reboot-worthy errors, adding 2 to the Data Processing 
attribute of a deck running this program when it at-
tempts a Reboot Device action (p. 242, SR5).
Detonator: With delicate monitoring, this cyberpro-
gram is able to determine how often a file is accessed, 
and it sets a data bomb to go off after it has been affect-
ed a set number of times. To use this program, a deck-
er attempts a Set Data Bomb action; if successful, they 
can then select how many actions can be executed with 
the file before the bomb goes off. They can also choose 
whether the Data Bomb does Matrix damage or just de-
letes the file. Similar to a Data Bomb, a Detonator can be 
detected with a Matrix Perception Test and defused with 
a Disarm Data Bomb action. Notoriously difficult to spot, 
Detonator-enabled data bombs are considered to have 
a Device Rating of 3 and a Sleaze attribute equal to [Re-
maining actions before detonation – 1] for the purposes 
of opposing Matrix Perception tests. This program costs 
twice as much as normal hacking cyberprograms, mean-
ing it costs 500 nuyen.
Evaluate: With constant updates from a series of Black 
BBS that specialize in monitoring paydata auctions, this 
program calculates how much a certain amount of pay-
data might be worth, in order to allow the decker to only 
take an amount that would limit the amount of heat they 
would generate in stealing a little extra while on the job.
Fly on a Wall: Haven’t you always wanted to be the 
fly on a wall, in order to see the look on the faces of 
people when the final tally of their lives comes up? Well, 
GOD tends to prevent long-term surveillance by unau-
thorized personnel, but this program helps rebalance 
the scales. While this program is running, and the decker 
is performing no actions other than Matrix Perception 
tests, the Overwatch Score only increases by 1D6 per 
half-hour (rolled in secret by the gamemaster as normal). 
The program requires a Hide action in order to activate 
properly, and it does not assist in any way in preventing 
any other icon from noticing the decker.
Hitchhiker: There are some special parts of the Ma-
trix where you can take others with you--and where 
you definitely don’t want to be alone. Grab this pro-
gram to take your non-hacker friends to foundations 
and UV hosts.
Nuke-from-Orbit: A hugely powerful file destruc-
tion program that requires frequent updates as adjust-
ments in file recovery technology continue to progress. 
This upgraded and outright illegal program is designed 
to ensure that no one will ever be able to recover a file 
that it destroys. If used to delete a file (the Edit File action 
should be used), this program ensures that no one will 
ever be able to recover the file from the Matrix A brutal 
and decidedly unsubtle cyberprogram, any Overwatch 
Score generated from the Opposed Test is doubled. Of-
fline back-ups and the Resonance realms are the only 
options for getting the file back. Nuke-From-Orbit has an 
Availability Rating of 12F
Paintjob: Resprays and textures a persona’s icon, as-
sisting in erasing or knocking off marks as it does so, 
ensuring the decker is able to trust in the fact that his cy-
berdeck is not being affected by outsiders. This program 
adds 2 to the Attack attribute for the purpose of making 
Erase Mark tests.
Smoke-and-Mirrors: Adds significant amounts of 
misleading location information in order to keep the 
decker from being located IRL. This program increases 
the cyberdeck’s Sleaze attribute between 1 and 5 (us-
er’s choice) with an equivalent amount of noise added 
to any tests performed with the deck. The noise also af-
fects Trace Icon tests performed against the deck using 
the program. This program has no effect against conver-
gence (p. 231, SR5), as GOD and all the demiGODs can-
not be distracted by so simple a trick.
Swerve: Just as deckers have seen the benefits of 
forcing other devices to reboot, they have seen a need 
to keep their devices safe from those efforts. Swerve 
adds redundant code to the OS of the cyberdeck and 
any connected devices in the decker’s PAN, making it 
easier for the devices to resist crash attacks. This pro-
gram adds 1 to the Firewall attribute of a device for the 
purpose of resisting Reboot Device attempts.
Tantrum: This program overlays cold simsense sen-
sations on top of a Data Spike action, hitting the target 
with a quick and disgusting sensation if even a single 
box of Matrix Damage is scored. The program is effec-
tive against all technomancers, as well as cold sim or 
hot sim deckers, but it does nothing to users working 
in the Matrix in AR, any form of IC, and agents. The pro-
gram does no damage from the Data Spike; instead, 
the targeted user experiences Nausea (p. 409, SR5) for 
three Combat Turns due to the sensory input. Popular 
options this program uses to make targets feel queasy 
include the smell of a dirty diaper or the feeling of being 
punched in the junk.
Tarball: A powerful but inaccurate combat program 
based on the old tar-based IC used for decades, Tarball 
adds 2 to the Attack attribute and 1 to the dice pool of 
Crash Program attempts (both of these bonuses only ap-
ply to Crash Program attempts), but its broader-based 
attack affects a random program rather than a chosen 
one.
 
COMPLEX FORMS
Always being researched, developed, manipulated, 
and perfected by technomancers, Complex forms 
continue to twist and crack the very concepts of what 
is “reality” in the Matrix, warping it even further than 
the already-twisted electronic world where the only 
boundaries are virtual reality and imagination.
>> DATA TRAILS <<
<< KILLER APPS AND RAZOR FORMS    57


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 59 =====
DEREZZ
Target: Persona • Duration: I • FV: L + 2
A stiletto or ice pick as opposed to the typical su-
perheated sledgehammers, the Resonance energy from 
this form slides into the cracks and holes in the target’s 
armor and strips it away slightly. Make a Software + Res-
onance [Level] v. Willpower + Firewall test, doing 1 box 
of Matrix damage per net hit, and dropping the target’s 
Firewall attribute by 1 until the device has rebooted. 
Additional successful Derezz attacks do not stack the 
Firewall adjustment, even if they are from two separate 
technomancers.
FAQ
Target: Device • Duration: P • FV: L
Scanning the very darkest depths of the Matrix to 
find out exactly what has been going on with the device 
they physically have or the host they are current inside 
of, the technomancer is able to delve into the very deep-
est questions to find out the true purpose of it. Make an 
immediate Computer + Intuition [Level] Test with Level 
/ 2  (rounded up) dice added to the pool from the com-
plex form. Gamemasters should provide information to the 
player based on the number of hits this test generates, with 
truly obscure or long-forgotten bytes of information requir-
ing 6 hits.
IC TRAY
Target: Host • Duration: I • FV: L – 2
This form scans the host the technomancer is cur-
rently residing in and displays a list of the IC it is current-
ly equipped to deploy, up to the number of hits scored 
on an Opposed Software + Resonance [Level] vs. Host 
Rating + Sleaze Test.
REDUNDANCY
Target: Device • Duration: S • FV: L + 0
This form works with Resonance threads to better 
allow for secondary and tertiary connections, making 
the device slightly tougher for a limited amount of time. 
Redundancy grants additional, temporary boxes to the 
Matrix Damage Track to one device, giving a number of 
boxes equal to the hits acquired on a Simple Software + 
Resonance [Level] Test.
MISREAD MARKS
Target: IC • Duration: P • FV: L + 2
A nasty little thing that will manipulate how IC per-
ceives the Matrix, and who exactly is friend or foe. Tem-
porarily tricks a targeted IC into thinking your marks are 
its intended targets, similar to the way someone might 
mistakenly attack a magic-user’s illusion. This lasts for 
for a number of actions (including Simple or Complex, 
but not Free) equal to the hits scored on a Simple Soft-
ware + Resonance [Level] Test. If you have multiple 
marks in the same host, the mark that is attacked is se-
lected randomly.
ECHOES
Submersion, while an intensive process, can provide a 
number of rewards. Echoes are the most widely known 
of these quasi-mystical powers, potentially manipulat-
ing the mind and body of the technomancer.
FFF: The Fight-or-Flight Filter echo adjusts the tech-
nomancer’s basic instincts for combat situations, mak-
ing them far more efficient than that of a normal meta-
human, while also muting the nagging portions of the 
brain that insist on feeling injuries. The technomancer 
receives all the benefits, but also all the difficulties, of 
a pain editor (p. 460, SR5) without needing to have the 
cultured bioware made for them and the surgery to get 
it implanted. A technomancer must have already sub-
merged at least once prior to taking this echo.
Mathemagics: Adjusting the logic centers of the 
brain, this echo allows a dramatically large increase in 
>> DATA TRAILS <<
SPECULATIVE DATA GATHERING
Vacuuming up paydata that isn’t related specifically to a 
job is, mostly, an outright act of greed. There might be other 
mitigating factors to take into consideration, but doing it just for 
the extra few nuyen to go on the credstick is just how it goes. 
Doing so, however, means that the runner team is heading 
deeper down the “cold-hearted bastard” end of things (p. 376, 
SR5). This should affect the monetary end of things when all 
is said and done, as the runners pawn the paydata through a 
regular fixer or a specialized fence known as a datamonger. 
Note that this will likely also adjust the Karma payout at the 
end of the gig, which may or may not annoy the rest of the 
team.
Of course, the opposite is also true. The decker can adjust 
or outright erase files that will give them no monetary reward 
but will make them feel better about themselves, as well as 
trying to strike a blow against the corporations that rule the 
Sixth World. Corrupting information such as onerous loan 
records, forged blackmail, or even minor things like traffic 
tickets can edge the decker towards the “good feelings” 
portion of shadowrunning.
Those actions—stealing extra data or erasing it—raise the 
risk of increasing a decker’s Notoriety (p. 372, SR5) as those 
actions will increase the amount of heat put onto deckers in 
general, and the run performed in particular, as well as running 
the risk of pissing off the Mr. Johnson.
In the end, everything has a price. What is yours, and what 
will it be paid in?
58    KILLER APPS AND RAZOR FORMS >>


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 60 =====
the math processing potential of the technomancer. This 
allows the technomancer to have the ability to perform 
simple math operations with perfectly accurate results, 
increasing the Mental Limit for math-intensive actions, 
such as encryption and decryption, by 2.
MMRI: Known as the Man-Machine Resonance In-
terface, this echo subtly manipulates the Resonance 
coming off the technomancer, allowing them to bet-
ter jump into drones and rigger-modified devices. This 
provides the same effects as a control rig (p. 452, SR5), 
without the free datajack and datacable. This can be tak-
en up to three times, each increasing the effective rating 
of the control rig by one.
Quiet: Where this runner goes, tendrils of Matrix 
connectivity continue to follow along, allowing every-
one to benefit from the majesty of the Matrix. Techno-
mancers with the Quiet echo reduce the Noise of their 
area by 2 (p. 230, SR5) for a radius around the hacker of 
10 meters per point of Resonance attribute. This echo 
can be activated or deactivated at will with a Free Action.
Resonance Riding: A strange twist of the Matrix fol-
lows the technomancer even through secondary means 
of connection, giving them the ability to perform some 
Resonance actions while jacked into the Matrix through 
a commlink or cyberdeck. While going through this 
secondary system, the technomancer cannot use their 
Living Persona or benefit from any of the Living Perso-
na’s attributes, or perform the Compile Sprite, Register 
Sprite, or Thread Complex Form actions. All other Reso-
nance actions are available.
Resonance Scream: Through sheer force of will, the 
technomancer is able to flood their area with spam mes-
sages, annoying the hell out of everyone and increasing 
the noise of the area by 2 for a radius around the hacker 
of 10 meters per Resonance attribute, affecting every-
one (including the technomancer) therein as if they were 
inside of a spam zone. This can be turned on and off 
with a Free Action, which is handy because spam rage 
is a major issue.
Skinlink: You gain the ability to forge a direct con-
nection with any device you can physically touch.  Two 
technomancers with this echo can mentally communi-
cate simply by touching.
Sleepwaker: The technomancer gains the ability 
to subconsciously perceive minor events happening 
around their body while working with the Matrix in VR. 
This allows them to choose to perform Perception-relat-
ed Free Actions in the Matrix or the real world.
>> DATA TRAILS <<
STYLES OF NOISE
While having the identical effect in the rules, the sources and 
methods of noise in the world are vastly different things. Static 
zones have little to no wireless connections, making them areas that 
limit the amount of connections, and bandwidth, available for the 
Matrix. Spam zones are the exact opposite, having multiple levels 
of access, but overburdened by so much traffic that bandwidth is 
overwhelmed and unable to flow properly. Dead zones, of course, 
are where nothing is happening, Matrix-wise.
These zones affect the shadowrunners in different ways. 
Dead zones annoy them with the inability to get even a single 
bar of connection, while spam zones annoy them by constantly 
flooding every bit of their perception with advertisements for 
consumeristic garbage. Creating or enhancing those zones is 
fairly subtle—after all, if you’re not expecting the best wireless 
service in an area, do you complain about how it really isn’t 
working one day? Or perhaps people just shrug because the spam 
is particularly thick today—maybe some great new cat video got 
posted that everyone needs to watch.
If someone uses the wrong type of Noise in an area, however, 
things get quite less subtle very, very quickly. After all, if there are 
no people in the area who can see into augmented reality, why 
would a spam zone suddenly pop up that can be seen by anyone 
with even the most basic commlink? In the other direction, a 
spam zone being flooded with static and a lack of ability to get out 
those  advertisements is going to slot off a corporation or two—
they don’t like people messing with revenue-generators. It’s a 
basic rule of shadowrunning—don’t do things that call too much 
attention to yourself.
<< KILLER APPS AND RAZOR FORMS    59


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 61 =====
You already know that the Matrix is a consensual hal-
lucination created to make it quick and easy to use the 
colossal ocean of data and information and computing 
power that has been created by metahumanity. You’re 
aware that you can plug in and get 3D graphical rep-
resentations of everything from the history of the Qin 
Dynasty to conspiracy theories about President Dun-
kelzahn’s assassination to the latest street drug prices 
to simsense escort services to the complete works of 
Shakespeare spontaneously generated by a near-in-
finite number of virtual monkeys.
But what is the Matrix, exactly? Where is it? Can 
someone accidentally unplug it? You’ve got questions, 
we’ve got answers, and they are, in reverse order: no, 
everywhere, and it goes like this.
THE MATRIX IS  
IN YOUR POCKET
In fact, the Matrix is your pocket, or it could be. But let’s 
not get ahead of ourselves.
Way back in the history of the Matrix, all the way back 
to Echo Mirage, the Matrix was run on mainframes—gi-
ant computers. The Matrix ran pretty much entirely in-
side these mainframes, and your cyberdeck interpreted 
the connections between mainframes for you.
Nowadays, we’ve made computers so compact and 
efficient that we literally have them in our lingerie (which 
is useful for things like washing instructions, storing 
mood music, and earning Tres Chic Intimates Collection™ 
reward points). When all those computers work togeth-
er, you get the biggest, baddest, most mother-fragginest 
Matrix the world has ever seen.
WHAT THAT MEANS
When everything is the Matrix, you can use anything to 
get into the Matrix. The commlink is what every shad-
owrunner will want for their own personal Matrix use, 
but there’s so much more. Need to access the Matrix in 
the morning and your commlink’s at the cleaners? No 
problem, with a few mods and a Hardware test, you can 
be surfing the Matrix on your toaster. 
For the discerning hacker, there’s the cyberdeck. 
Some hackers say you’re only as good as your deck; 
most of those hackers are dead, but there’s some truth 
to it. Whether you’re looking for a new deck or to spice 
up your old one, you’ve opened the book to the right 
chapter, chummer.
When you’re bored with commlinks and cyberdecks, 
start hacking in Insanity Mode. The last section of this 
chapter is all about how to take common household 
items and make Matrix magic, for fun or because you’re 
stranded in an electronically locked shipping container 
with nothing but a troll and a pet robot, and you need to 
open the doors before you sink too deep into the strait 
you’ve just been dropped into. When life gives you lem-
ons, make jury-rigged electronics!
COMMLINKS
Commlinks are still the dominant telecommunications 
and entertainment devices of the Sixth World, so let’s 
take a quick look at the vital things that make this utility 
knife of a device what it is.
FORM FACTOR
The form factor of a commlink is the physical shape of 
the device. The standard form factor for a commlink is a 
small, flat, rectangular object about fifteen centimeters 
or so long. Commlinks are also available in non-stan-
dard form factors at a slight premium. The most popu-
lar non-standard form factors include articles of cloth-
ing, pens, glasses, pocket and wrist watches, purses, 
hats (fedoras are in fashion for both genders), canes, 
knives, and small pistols.
If you want a commlink in a non-standard form fac-
tor, add 2 to the commlink’s Availability and 20 percent 
to its cost. If you want to integrate a commlink into a 
weapon, add 4 to the commlink’s Availability and 50 
percent to its cost—it’s a bit trickier to install a commlink 
into a weapon in such a way that it won’t be damaged 
by normal use. In either case, you still have to cover the 
cost of the form factor separately, if applicable.
For examples of some non-standard form factors, 
check out the following!
DATA TRAILS
THE GUTS OF
THE MATRIX
60    THE GUTS OF THE MATRIX >>


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 62 =====
EVOTECH HIMITSU
This lunchbox-sized commlink appears to be a generic, 
uninteresting, low-level consumer commlink. In fact, it 
contains a secret compartment that can hold items no 
larger than a pistol or a cigar box. The compartment 
is shielded with its own built-in Faraday cage, and the 
commlink has a stealth module integrated into the 
board, giving it Sleaze 5.
MCT BLUE DEFENDER
This commlink comes standard as a wristband that is, 
as you’d expect, blue. Designed for legitimate sale to 
security forces and off-the-books distribution to shad-
owrunners and criminals worldwide, this stylish brace-
let protects your devices from evil hackers with a stron-
ger-than-average Firewall.
NIXDORF SEKRETÄR
Are you constantly confused and lost? Does your file 
directory look like your commlink was the sole victim 
of the Crash 3.0? Worry no more, because the Nix-
dorf Sekretar has your back. It has a built-in Rating 
3 agent that will organize your calendar, your files, 
your work, and (with the Liebesekretär upgrade) your 
love life.*
* Liebesekretär package includes automatic match mak-
ing, date scheduling, concierge service, and rating system. No 
guarantee is implied in this service. Some terms and condi-
tions apply. Always use protection.
COMMLINK DONGLES
A dongle is a small device that attaches to a commlink’s 
universal data port and gives it extra functionality. Un-
less you’ve got a teeny little commlink, a dongle barely 
increases the size of the whole thing. A commlink can 
only use one dongle at a time.
ATTACK DONGLE
This dongle doesn’t actually attack people, though that 
would be cool. It gives the commlink an Attack rating 
equal to its rating, providing some on-the-fly, quick at-
tack resources. DemiGODs love corporate employees to 
use these, as they can provide more time for them to track 
down and punish intruders.
CABLE TAP
This shady dongle has a small split ring that can be 
wrapped around a data cable, giving your commlink a 
direct connection to the devices on either side of the 
cable it’s clipped to.
COMMLINK FORM FACTOR
FORM
AVAIL
COST
Non-standard Form Factor
+2
+20%
Weapon Form Factor
+4R
+50%
COMMLINKS
COMMLINK
DEVICE RATING
DATA PROC.
FIREWALL
AVAIL
COST
EvoTech Himitsu
2
1
2
8R
11,000¥
MCT Blue Defender
3
1
5
7
2,000¥
Nixdorf Sekretär
4
6
2
5
4,000¥
    w/ Liebesekretär
+1
+2,000¥
<< THE GUTS OF THE MATRIX    61


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 63 =====
STEALTH DONGLE
A stealth dongle gives the commlink a Sleaze rating 
based on the rating of the dongle, for those who want 
their quick actions to be more subtle, less brutal.
STUN DONGLE
This dongle turns your commlink into a stun gun, 
though one that requires contact with the target to op-
erate. It is a popular choice of civilians who want incon-
spicuous protection and a convenient carrying case. It 
packs three charges in its slim form factor.
RECEIVER
Just plug this dongle into your commlink and you get 
Noise Reduction 2 for your commlink and all slaved de-
vices! Great for spam zones!
CYBERDECKS
The cyberdeck is the decker’s bread and butter. And 
knife. And plate. And toaster. Really, it’s the entire 
kitchen. There are lots of cyberdecks on page 439 of 
SR5, but we know you’re hungry for more.
FORM FACTOR
The standard cyberdeck form factor is a smooth, flat, 
elongated rectangle about twenty-five centimeters 
long, with plenty of display space for touch controls. 
Like commlinks, cyberdecks can also fit into non-stan-
dard form factors, following the same rules and costs 
for commlink form factors (p. 60).
STANDARD DECKS
For more information about cyberdecks, see Cyber-
decks, p. 227, SR5.
RADIO SHACK PCD-500
This little wonder is the perfect model for the aspiring 
young cybersecurity specialist. Bulk discount for edu-
cational institutions—contact a sales representative for 
details. Are you going to squeeze a lot of power out of 
it? No. But it’s like the Radio Shack motto says: “Radio 
Shack: Better than nothing, most of the time!”
LITTLE HORNET
This compact cyberdeck is made in Chicago under the 
UCAS ghoul employment program, and we pass the 
savings right on to you! It’s high end goes to pretty 
good heights, but watch out where you put those low-
end attributes. Lots of Little Hornet owners also invest 
in a Configurator program (p. 245, SR5).
MICROTRÓNICA AZTECA 300
Sold as an upgrade to the 200 model, the Microtrónica 
Azteca 300 is little more than the 200 with a smaller 
cooling system and an extra quaternion quantum buf-
fer. Even so, you can’t dismiss the extra power the new 
configuration gives the 300, with some benchmarks 
outperforming similarly rated decks. 
XIAO MPG-1
The MPG-1 is designed by our friends at the Midwest 
Pirate’s Guild with one deadly purpose: smash every-
thing in your way before it can hit back. Lots of IC was 
harmed in the making of this deck.
SHIAWASE CYBER-4
The first product of Shiawase’s reboot of the Fuchi Cy-
ber line, the Cyber-5, was a deck that had high praise 
but low sales figures, criticized for being out of reach 
COMMLINK DONGLES
DONGLE
AVAIL
COST
Attack dongle (Rating 1-6)
[Rating x 
2]R
(Rating)2  
x 3,000¥
Cable tap
8R
500¥
Stealth dongle (Rating 1-6)
[Rating x 
2]R
(Rating)2  
x 3,000¥
Stun dongle
6R
600¥
Receiver
3
400¥
CLUBS
CLUB
ACCURACY
REACH
DAMAGE
AP
AVAIL
COST
Stun dongle
4
—
8S(e)
–5
6R
600¥
CYBERDECK FORM FACTOR
FORM
AVAIL
COST
Non-standard Form Factor
+3
+20%
Weapon Form Factor
+6R
+50%
>> DATA TRAILS <<
62    THE GUTS OF THE MATRIX >>


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 64 =====
of the larger cybersecurity market. The Cyber-4 was in-
troduced as a low-price, high-performance cyberdeck, 
undercutting the price point of the CIY-720 while out-
performing the more popular cyberdeck in some areas. 
This model will save you a lot of money, but leave you 
with one glaring vulnerability. Tread carefully.
FAIRLIGHT PALADIN
An incredible feat of human ingenuity, the Fairlight Pal-
adin is a masterpiece of cyberdeck design and engi-
neering. The Paladin is considered a “pinnacle achieve-
ment” by execs and engineers at NeoNET’s Fairlight 
division. Fairlight has sold only five of the decks in the 
world and report that they are filling orders for another 
twelve. Some say that the deck costs more to manu-
facture than the million-plus asking price, making the 
top-end cyberdeck more of a territorial marker in the 
industry than a product intended for sale.
SPECIALTY DECKS
Specialty cyberdecks are built with a specific purpose 
in mind. You can’t swap a specialty deck’s attributes 
when you reconfigure, only its programs. On the plus 
side, they’re a bit cheaper than standard decks.
MCT TRAINEE
A spider’s got to start somewhere, and Mitsuhama 
starts theirs with cybercombat training decks. These 
decks have built-in Biofeedback Filter programs to keep 
the trainees (relatively) safe. Though if you take one 
into the wilds of the Matrix, you’d better be ready for 
the demiGODs to get creative in the ways they cause 
you pain.
C-K ANALYST
The Cantor-Kurosawa Analyst is what every investiga-
tive journalist needs to poke around without being no-
ticed, find the plain truth, package it up, and broadcast 
it in microseconds. The built-in high-def camera and 
recording suite, complemented by the hardwired Edit 
>> DATA TRAILS <<
<< THE GUTS OF THE MATRIX    63


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 65 =====
program, will make you look like a million nuyen as you 
tell it like it is to the world.
AZTECHNOLOGY EMISSARY
For the courier on the go, this deck is designed to car-
ry and protect files. It’s also handy for protecting slaved 
devices and your own wetware. Just don’t make the mis-
take of many a medieval noble who wandered out from 
behind their walls to engage the enemy. Being strong on 
defense is not the same as being skilled in attack.
YAK KILLER
This powerful but somewhat fragile deck isn’t exactly an 
official product of the Reality Hackers gang of Seattle. 
Their unusual configuration isn’t exactly licensed, the 
proceeds don’t exactly go to the gang, and having one 
won’t exactly make you the gang’s best friend, but it’s 
a popular model among up-and-coming deck-trippers.
RING OF LIGHT SPECIAL
If you haven’t heard of the trid show, Ring of Light, 
welcome back to civilization from your cave-dwelling 
sabbatical. The decks used by the virtual fighters in this 
digital cage match are now for sale to the public, and 
are required for RoL-sanctioned local events and feed-
er leagues. They’re about as stealthy as a troll riding a 
rhino through a library, but stealth makes for bad trid.
ARES ECHO UNLIMITED
This deck puts the “special” in special forces. It is rugge-
dized for hard combat missions with security contrac-
tors like Hard Corps and Wolverine, along with a number 
of government and civilian security organizations.
CYBERDECK MODULES
A cyberdeck module is a prefabricated component that 
extends the capabilities of your deck. Each cyberdeck has 
one module slot inside its case. Inserting, removing, or 
swapping modules requires a Hardware + Logic [Mental] 
(1) Test and about half a minute of time (10 Combat Turns).
Modules aren’t as robust as your average deck and 
are vulnerable to Matrix damage. If your deck is ever 
bricked, any module in it becomes a useless hunk of 
slag, even if you repair the deck.
HARDENING
The hardening module acts as a shield between your 
deck and incoming damage. It has a Matrix Condition 
Monitor with five boxes, and it takes damage before 
your deck does. These boxes cannot be repaired.
INDUCTION RECEIVER
When you have this module installed, your deck can tap 
into data cables and hardlines on contact. By placing your 
CYBERDECKS
DECK
DEVICE RATING
ATT. ARRAY
PROGRAMS
AVAIL
COST
Radio Shack PCD-500
1
2 2 1 1
1
2
21,000¥
Little Hornet
2
5 4 1 1
2
5R
89,700¥
Microtrónica Azteca 300
3
7 5 3 1
3
9R
200,000¥
Xiao MPG-1
4
8 5 4 3
3
13R
302,000¥
Shiawase Cyber-4
4
8 6 4 2
3
12R
331,000¥
Fairlight Paladin
6
9 9 8 8
6
20R
1,050,000¥
SPECIALTY CYBERDECKS
DECK
DEVICE RATING
A S D F
PROGRAMS
AVAIL
COST
MCT Trainee
1
2 1 1 2
1
3R
17,250¥
C-K Analyst
2
1 5 4 3
1
5R
83,800¥
Aztechnology Emissary
3
2 3 3 8
1
8R
168,000¥
Yak Killer
3
7 6 2 3
2
13R
194,000¥
Ring of Light Special
4
8 1 2 6
3
10R
242,000¥
Ares Echo Unlimited
5
9 6 4 5
3
15R
395,900¥
>> DATA TRAILS <<
64    THE GUTS OF THE MATRIX >>


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 66 =====
cyberdeck directly onto the cable, it becomes directly 
connected to the devices on either side of the cable.
MULTIDIMENSIONAL 
COPROCESSOR
This tongue-twister of a module speeds up Matrix sig-
nals and commands, granting the deck’s operator an 
additional +1D6 to Matrix Initiative (remember that you 
can never roll more than 5D6 worth of initiative dice).
OVERWATCH MASK
This handy module confuses GOD’s watchful eye by 
pretending it’s part of the Matrix enforcement system. 
The Matrix doesn’t converge on a deck with this mod 
until its Overwatch Score reaches 4 more than normal 
(making it 44 in normal conditions).
PROGRAM CARRIER
This module holds a program that your deck can run 
permanently. You pick the program and we lock it in at 
manufacture, which means you can’t change it, but hey, 
it’s an extra program. Price includes the program cost.
SELF-DESTRUCT
This module is 98 percent explosive material by weight. 
When your deck detects a specific pre-determined 
condition (chosen by you), the module explodes, turn-
ing your cyberdeck into a fragmentation grenade—see 
p. 435, SR5 for all the mayhem that causes. The deck, 
of course, is completely unrecoverable, meaning may-
be don’t put one of these into a Fairlight Paladin.
VECTORED SIGNAL FILTER
By adding a dedicated signal filter to your deck, this 
module gives you Noise Reduction 2.
ODD MODS
If you want to modify a device to increase its built-in 
ratings, or give it a new function, you’ve come to the 
right place. All you need is the Hardware skill, some 
Hardware tools (a kit will suffice), and some electronic 
parts. You’ll also need some time.
To start the process, pick a device and a modification 
you want (there’s a list of modifications below). Then 
make sure you have the electronic parts you need. Then 
you just need to roll some dice and bam! You’ll have a 
modified device. Or a mess.
ELECTRONIC PARTS
We say “parts,” but what we really mean is all of the 
doo-dads and what-nots you’re going to need to 
make your modification. This sort of thing includes in-
tegrated circuits, disposable solder packets, ceramic 
nano-sheets, quantum transducers, optical switches, 
yadda, yadda, yadda—it’s easier to just say “parts” and 
be done with it. 
As you can see, there are a lot of expensive little 
fiddly-bits needed to make Sixth-World electronics 
work. To make things simpler for Shadowrun, we call the 
amount of parts required to make one modification a 
pack of parts.
There are a couple of ways to get parts packs, the 
two most common being to just go out and buy them or 
to scrounge them by cannibalizing otherwise perfectly 
good devices.
ELECTRONIC  
COMPONENT PACKS
Electronic packs are sold over the counter at your 
friendly local electronics store—buy in bulk for your 
best deals. You can also get packs when buying tools. 
Your standard Hardware shop (p. 443, SR5) comes with 
two packs when you acquire it, and will need restock-
ing when you use it up. A Hardware facility (also p. 443, 
CYBERDECK MODULES
MODULES
AVAILABILITY
COST
Hardening
3R
1,500¥
Induction Receiver
10R
1,200¥
Multidimensional Coprocessor
7R
1,400¥
Overwatch Mask
9F
4,200¥
Program Carrier
2
900¥
Self-Destruct
12F
200¥
Vectored Signal Filter
3
800¥
>> DATA TRAILS <<
<< THE GUTS OF THE MATRIX    65


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 67 =====
SR5) has enough spare parts to make up ten electronic 
component packs when you buy it.
SCROUNGING FOR  
ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS
It’s a lot cheaper to cannibalize other devices for parts. 
Stripping down an otherwise useful device for parts re-
quires a Hardware toolkit and about ten minutes. Make 
a Hardware + Logic [target’s Device Rating] Test, with 
modifiers from the Device Stripping Modifiers table. 
Every hit from this test gets you one quarter of a pack 
of parts. You can keep the change, as it were, keeping 
a fraction of a pack and saving it to add to future scav-
enging results.
MAKING THE 
MODIFICATION
If you don’t have enough packs of parts to make your 
modification, the whole process is a no-go. You can’t 
make something out of nothing. If you don’t have 
enough parts, start looking for devices you can canni-
balize, and you should be set. Or just go to the store.
Making the modification to a device is a Hardware 
+ Logic [Mental] (15, 15 minutes) Extended Test. You 
take a –4 dice pool modifier if you don’t have any Hard-
ware tools, and the modifiers for working conditions and 
working from memory (p. 146, SR5) apply.
DEVICE MODIFICATIONS
Here’s a list of mods you can perform on a device. This 
isn’t an exhaustive list—if you want to try something 
that isn’t written here, check with your gamemaster to 
see if you can do it. There are no additional costs for 
the mods beyond the cost for the parts and for any kits 
or facilities used. Unless otherwise noted, a device can 
only have one modification.
Add a Matrix Attribute: You can add a rating that a 
device doesn’t have, specifically Attack or Sleaze. When 
you perform this mod, the rating starts at 1. You can’t 
add a Matrix attribute to a device that already has that 
attribute. Remember that all devices have Data Process-
ing and Firewall, even if that information is not listed in 
their gear entry. The Increase a Matrix Attribute modifi-
cation can later be added to this modification. The num-
ber of parts packs needed for this modification equals 
the (Device Rating x 2) of the object being modified.
Add a Module: You can hardwire a cyberdeck mod-
ule into a device. You need the module you want to add 
to the device. Most devices can only have one module, 
although cyberdecks can have two—one in the normal 
module slot, and the one you hardwire in. Hardwired 
modules follow the same rules as normal modules (p. 
64). This requires two packs of parts.
Increase a Matrix Attribute: You can increase a sin-
gle Matrix attribute by one point, but the cost in packs of 
parts is equal to the new attribute rating x 2. This modifi-
cation takes a lot out of the device’s other components, 
causing two permanent and irreparable boxes of Matrix 
damage to the device.
Modify a Matrix Attribute: You can use this to in-
crease one Matrix attribute and decrease a different 
Matrix attribute, each by one point. This also works on 
the attribute array of a cyberdeck. This requires four sets 
of parts.
Persona Firmware: With two packs of parts, you can 
add the ability to run a persona to a device. If the device 
already has this capability, you can’t add it again. 
ELECTRONIC PARTS
PACK
AVAIL
COST
Single Pack
—
250¥
Five-Pack
—
1,000¥
DEVICE STRIPPING MODIFIERS
CONDITION
DICE POOL MOD
Device is...
   … a commlink or cyberdeck
+4
   … cyberware
+0
   … another type of device
–4
Each box of Matrix damage
–1
>> DATA TRAILS <<
66    THE GUTS OF THE MATRIX >>


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 68 =====
>> DATA TRAILS <<
<< THE GUTS OF THE MATRIX    67


===== datatrails.pdf PDF 69 =====
Time moved weird in the Matrix under the best of cir-
cumstances, but it was even weirder when Groovetooth 
was sneaking. Each step felt like it took a full minute, but 
when she’d check the time, only seconds had passed. 
She checked repeatedly and got the same result each 
time, which helped convince her that maybe she could 
stop. She had more time than she anticipated.
She was slowly making her way through a lovely in-
door greenhouse. It was full of ferns, tremendous ferns, 
ferns of a greater variety and size than she had ever 
seen in her life. They were thick and lush, easy to hide 
under and in. Maybe too easy. If she ducked into the 
thick of it, off the brick path winding through the plants, 
she would be harder to see, but who knew what was 
waiting on the ground?
She’d know, dammit. She sent out a clutch of agents 
in the form of snakes to investigate the ground just to 
her left. Any hidden sensors would be, you know, hid-
den, but she needed to at least look for them and hope 
she got a good scan, in case something came along.
Groovetooth’s persona was even smaller than her 
real life body. It was barely more than a meter tall, in the 
form of her namesake mouse, with black stripes running 
down the brown fur on her back. She had programmed 
the persona very carefully to look dignified and thought-
ful—none of that typical mouse whisker-twitching for 
her. She walked on her hind legs, continuing to step 
carefully. Her destination, a fountain at the end of the 
greenhouse, was maybe 75 meters away, but at her pace 
it felt like 75 kilometers.
Then a report came back from one of the snakes. Ac-
tivity in the fountain. She had it transmit a feed to her, and 
she didn’t like what she was seeing. Water was flowing 
toward the center of the pool at the base of the fountain, 
moving up into a column, taking a vaguely humanoid 
shape. There was no way this could be good. Chances 
were that some of her activity had been noticed. 
Time to hide. She checked the scan of the ground to 
her left. It seemed clean. Meanwhile, the watery form 
was slushing forward through the water toward the edge 
of the pool. 
She plunged into the ferns, disturbing as few leaves 
as possible. She went behind one plant, ducked, and 
looked around.
The plant was tall enough but too thin. Her fur could 
be seen in gaps between the leaves. No good. And she 
could hear sloshing water approaching.
She plunged deeper, still didn’t feel concealed, and 
went deeper still. Only to realize that she was in farther 
than she had checked. In too far, as it turned out.
A loud splintering sound caused her to look up. The 
glass ceiling of the greenhouse was splintering, a spi-
derweb of cracks moving quickly through it. Then large 
chunks of glass fell, letting in beams of bright yellow 
light through to the ground. They were accompanied by 
a strange choir of voices, high and harmonious but with 
an edge of hysteria and chaos.
She looked around, desperately seeing if there was 
a clear path through the multiplying beams of light. She 
didn’t see a great path, but there was absolutely no way 
she could stay here.
Because GOD was coming.
FEAR AND 
TREMBLING
POSTED BY: PISTONS
Look, the new Matrix is rough. Should you be worried? 
Yeah. Cautious? Of course. Scared?
Never.
If you’re scared, sell your cyberdeck to someone 
who can really use it. Because if you run the Matrix with 
fear, you run it with a time bomb strapped to your chest. 
The GODs and demiGODs are tough, merciless, and 
really good at what they do. But so are the Ancients, the 
Red Samurai, and plenty of other people we encounter 
on the street. We don’t back down. We get good.
Now that you’ve had your pep talk, let’s look at how 
our opponents work in the Matrix so you can know 
what’s waiting for you.
AVOIDING THE 
WATCHFUL EYE OF GOD
I chose the title of this section really carefully, because 
as much as we can worry about the ways the GODs 
and demiGODs can hurt us, the thing we really need 
DATA TRAILS
THE ALL-SEEING 
EYE OF GOD
68    THE ALL-SEEING EYE OF GOD >>
