
===== PDF PAGE IDX 186 =====
Mixing magic and technology can bring great 
rewards. Ask any spell slinger if they haven’t con-
sidered an upgrade to their senses or body, and 
they will tell you the same thing. Sometimes it’s 
worth the damage, but it better be important. In-
corporating technology into the body of a magi-
cian or adept affects their Essence, the source of 
their magic. The more extensive the cyberware, 
the deeper the impact on the Essence of the ma-
gician or adept. While the more cutting edge and 
expensive versions of cyberware, or even bioware, 
can mitigate this damage, nothing can ever elim-
inate it completely. The same holds true for the 
effect of magic on technology. The more magic in 
an area, the more ambient noise. This can, in some 
instances, impact how technology works, making 
it more difficult to access the Matrix. 
Alchemists are unfortunate in that they suffer 
in both these instances. Heavy use of magic can 
affect the tech they use to enhance their creations, 
just as too much tech can influence the potency of 
their creations. As such, they are very careful on 
what combinations they use. The key seems to be 
using tech to assist in the creation of their project, 
or as the target, but rarely both. Tools such as the 
crucible, vault of ages, or alembic are all examples 
of ways that clever alchemists have managed to 
leverage the power of technology to create fast-
er and more powerful products. By ensuring that 
each aspect of the process is carefully balanced 
between magic and technology, powerful effects 
can be generated at low risk—something every tal-
ismonger or corporation will agree is always the 
best solution. The other option is to create magical 
compounds and preparations that have little tech 
involved in their creation, instead targeting tech-
nology itself through machines, the Matrix, or the 
cyberware of others. This tightrope is hard to walk, 
but alchemists are always willing to experiment. 
The risks and rewards of manatech are myri-
ad. Clever runners will maximize the power while 
minimizing the cost and risk, something even cor-
porations can agree is the ultimate strategy. The 
true power of manatech is the constant progress 
it inspires. Each blending of magic and technolo-
gy encourages others to take it to the next step. 
Go one further. Make it better, faster, or cheaper. 
The constant need sustains this continuing state of 
progress to remain one step ahead, staying clear 
of those who are right behind, waiting for a single 
mistake. 
NEW SPELL: ALTER BALLISTICS
(MANIPULATION, PHYSICAL)
 Type: P Range: T
 Duration: I Drain: (F – 2)
The Alter Ballistics spell is a spell unique to the Alchemical 
Armorer that allows them to alter the ballistic properties of 
bullets or add helpful effects like noise reduction. This spell 
only works as an alchemical preparation that uses a bullet 
as the lynchpin. Bullets used as a lynchpin may only be fired 
by Single Shot weapons. The preparation must be activated 
before it is fired or the lynchpin will be destroyed by firing the 
bullet. When using a command trigger, a character may choose 
to activate a single preparation normally (with a Simple Action) 
or any number of bullets (including all of them) at a time with 
a Complex Action. When activated, the preparation lasts for a 
number of minutes equal to the Force of the preparation. When 
crafting the lynchpin, the character must specify and make a 
record of the effects they would like the bullet to have, in order, 
from most desired to least desired. When the preparation is 
activated, each net hit will add the listed properties to the 
bullet in the specified order until net hits or the list of chosen 
effects is exhausted.
LIST OF EFFECTS
• Double weapon range (changing all categories of range 
modifiers).
• –4 dice pool modifier to Perception tests to notice gunfire.
• +1 Accuracy.
• Deformation Resistance: –2 AP , –1 DV. Deformation-
resistant bullets do not deform when fired or upon impact, 
which inflicts a –4 dice pool penalty to any Armorer tests 
to identify the weapon that fired the bullet. Cannot be used 
with hollow-point ammunition. 
• Increased Deformation: +2 AP , +1 DV. Cannot be used with APDS.
• Astral signature fade time reduced by 50 percent.
• Impact Dispersion: Reduces the Physical limit of a 
character by 2 when comparing it to the DV to determine 
knockdown.
• Frangible: Treat any barrier the ammo hits as if its Armor 
were twice normal.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
186    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 187 =====
NEW REAGENTS OF 
THE SIXTH WORLD 
Gathering and refining reagents is the staple of 
the alchemist. Reagents are measured by the spe-
cific amount required to be equivalent in strength 
to a dram of orichalcum. For example, a physi-
cal pound of gris-gris dust from a less-refined 
reagent might only hold the mystical equivalent 
of a few drams of orichalcum. With the myriad 
of traditions and paths different practitioners of 
magic employ, there is always a high demand for 
reagents of different styles and types. As many 
traditions are careful to protect their secrets, a 
successful alchemist or talismonger seeks to pro-
vide a vast selection of reagents and takes careful 
notes about who purchases what. 
HARVESTING REAGENTS
Mana flows and pools throughout the Sixth World, 
creating rich veins where alchemists and talismon-
gers harvest reagents. Sadly for those aspiring en-
trepreneurs, the safer and better known the area, 
the less likely it is to find reagents that are rare or 
powerful and command the highest prices. This 
quest to find new locations to harvest has led to 
the discovery of some rare and exotic ingredients 
that are just now becoming known to alchemists 
in the shadows as well as their corporate brethren. 
OVERHARVESTING REAGENTS
Once an area has been properly harvested of re-
agents, it can take forty-eight hours or more for 
the mana to replenish. Sometimes, though, you 
need what you need and don’t have time to wait. 
It’s possible to overharvest a specific area, but it’s 
a desperate and dangerous maneuver. Overhar -
vesting has the very real possibility of tainting the 
area enough to ensure it will never again be able 
to collect enough mana to enable the creation of 
viable reagents. This process also taints the alche-
mist, reducing the quality of any other reagents 
they may gather for the next forty-eight hours by 
one full level (Superior to Base, Base to Subpar, 
and so forth). Talismongers, corporations, and al-
chemists alike have no tolerance for those who 
would permanently destroy valuable resources. 
And chummer, someone is always  watching.
To harvest a reagent from an already taxed 
area, make an Alchemy + Magic [Mental] Test. 
You gather one dram for every 4 hits on this test if 
you are in an area suited to your tradition, and one 
dram for every 6 hits if you’re not. Glitching this 
roll results in the area being totally unsuitable for 
reagent harvesting for a full week. A critical glitch 
renders the area permanently dead to the possi-
bility of gathering reagents. 
NEW WAYS 
TO LEVERAGE 
REAGENTS
Reagents have more uses than just as a key com-
ponent for different compounds. The different 
levels of refinement allow for differing and ad-
vanced effects depending on their level of so-
phistication. Below is a list of additional effects 
UPDATED REAGENT COST AND EFFECTS
REAGENT COST (PER DRAM) AVAILABILITY EFFECT
Tainted 20¥ — Increase time to refine by 100 percent
Inferior 30¥ 1 Increase time to refine by 50 percent
Subpar 40¥ 4 Increase time to refine by 25 percent
Baseline 50¥ 6R No change
Superior 60¥ 14R Reduce time to refine by 25 percent
Prime 70¥ 20R Reduce time to refine by 50 percent
Refined Type x 5 +4 See New Ways to Leverage Reagents (below)
Radical Type x 25 +8 See New Ways to Leverage Reagents (below)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    187
===== PDF PAGE IDX 188 =====
that reagents may be used for beyond those list-
ed in SR5 and Street Grimoire. The total amount of 
bonus effects may not exceed the user’s Magic 
rating. Effects from a Radical reagent are not cu-
mulative with effects from the Refined version of 
that same reagent.
RAW REAGENTS
These reagents are newly harvested or have yet 
to undergo refinement by an alchemist.
• Reduce drain by 1 for Ritual Spellcasting tests.
• Raise the limit by 1 for any tests using Magic.
• Create refined reagents (requires 10 drams to 
be refined into a single dram of refined re-
agent).
REFINED REAGENTS
These reagents have undergone the refinement 
process and have attained a new level of power.
• Reduce drain by 2 for tests using skills in 
the Sorcery group.
• Reduce drain by 1 for binding.
• Raises limit by 5 for all tests using Magic.
• Create Magical Compounds (p. 219, Street 
Grimoire).
• Create radical reagents (p. 210, Street Gri-
moire) (requires 10 drams to be refined into 
a single dram of radical reagent).
RADICAL REAGENTS
The most powerful version of a reagent, these 
have gone through the refinement process twice 
to reach their maximum potential.
• Reduces drain by 2 for tests using skills in the 
Conjuring group.
• Reduce drain by 4 for tests using skills in the 
Sorcery group.
• Reduce object resistance by 1 per dram.
• No Force limit for any tests using Magic 
(though Drain is caluclated as normal).
• Reducing Spirit Index (p. 207, Street Grimoire).
• Create orichalcum (Requires 10 drams each 
of the required reagents listed as per (p. 210, 
Street Grimoire).
• Create fetish (p. 212, Street Grimoire).
• Create inanimate vessel (p. 214, Street Gri-
moire).
NEW RARE 
REAGENTS
The reagents detailed in this section are consid-
ered rare and difficult to harvest. They are almost 
universally usable by different traditions and are 
in high demand. Their purity of mana makes them 
desirable, as the smallest amount can go a long 
way. They are also useful in several new com-
pounds that have been invented to make use of 
the qualities inherent in each. Even the lowest 
quality of these are considered superior reagents. 
The danger in their acquisition can be high, but 
there are many who are willing to do far more for 
a few nuyen. 
REAGENT:  
BONE OR HAIR FROM  
A BAOBHAN SITH
Known as the White Women, the baobhan sith 
are fae with deep ties to myth and legend (p. 1 14, 
Court of Shadows). Some believe they are the pro-
genitors of the first vampires as the source of the 
human metahuman vampiric virus. Others claim 
they are the source of the tales of nymphs and si-
rens that lure men to their deaths with their beau-
ty. The baobhan sith appear as hauntingly beauti-
ful women with the terrifying power to alter their 
very bones into rending talons and razor-sharp 
teeth. These monsters live off humanoid blood 
and inflict a strange euphoria in their victims, cre-
ating an addiction to being their prey. 
Restored access to the Sixth World through the 
metaplanes has freed the baobhan to once more 
hunt the mortal plane. A hunter, however, may 
find themselves prey if they are not careful, as the 
runners in the shadows are no easy meat. Prey 
alone is not the only reason the baobhan have 
returned to the mortal plane of the Sixth World. 
Status within their kind is based upon a meritoc-
racy. Providing the most use to the whole earns 
value. In the course of hunting for sustenance, a 
White Woman may also be seeking to extend her 
personal network of spies and informants or gain 
access to a new and valuable skill that would in-
crease her worth or standing back home.
Once properly refined, the bone or hair from a 
baobhan sith
 serves as a primary reagent for com-
pounds and preparations that could enhance re-
generation and heal physical wounds, or become 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
188    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 189 =====
a tenacious poison that damages not just the body, 
but also one’s ability to wield magic. 
REAGENT:  
DROP BEAR SALIVA
The mass of jet-black fur and razor sharp teeth 
known as the drop bear (p. 60, Howling Shad-
ows) is a form of Awakened koala. Known car -
riers of HMHVV II, these omnivorous predators 
are currently on the bounty list all over the Out-
back and other areas of Oceania. While they are 
able to survive on their preferred food source of 
eucalyptus, they are ambush predators that are 
always looking for a way to add easy meat to 
their diet. 
Outside of captivity, drop bears are found pri-
marily in the outback of Australia, as well as in 
forested areas of New Guinea. Recently, some 
zoos and corporations have begun importing or 
breeding the beasts, making it possible to find 
them in other areas, though under very difficult 
circumstances due to both the bounty and their 
innate ferocity. Recent discoveries on the al-
chemical uses of their saliva may rectify this situ-
ation swiftly, assuming a synthetic can’t be man-
ufactured first. 
Alchemically, drop bear saliva has become in-
credibly popular. A corporate researcher discov -
ered by accident the ability to refine the saliva and 
create a serum that inhibits the continuing mu-
tation of HMHVV II. While it does not serve as a 
cure, it stops any progress of the virus as long as 
the serum is administered on a weekly basis. This 
serum is not generally known to the public yet, but 
the black market has erupted with the formula for 
the creation of the compound, and many willing 
test subjects have come forward. Other uses for 
this reagent have been explored but are uncon-
firmed at this time. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    189
===== PDF PAGE IDX 190 =====
REAGENT: GHOST  
ORCHID PETALS
Ghost orchids are a particularly rare breed of orchid. 
They bloom at night by the light of the moon, and the 
white coloration gives them an otherworldly glow. 
Researchers into these matters agree that the very 
rarity of the flower makes it a natural accumulator of 
mana. When combined with the ambient mana of 
the Sixth World, this allows these delicate flowers to 
take on powerful characteristics when properly pro-
cessed and refined by a skilled alchemist. 
Ghost orchids are most commonly found deep 
within forested areas. They need exposure to direct 
moonlight to bloom, so they are difficult to obtain 
in the first place. There has been some limited suc-
cess in cultivating the flower in greenhouses and 
such, but the ambient mana must be high in order 
for them to develop and thrive. Most commonly 
found in the UCAS areas, their very rarity is part of 
what makes them such a potent reagent. 
When properly refined, ghost orchid petals 
are powerful reagents that are added into com-
pounds and preparations designed to enhance 
vision-based perception. They also may be further 
refined into radical reagents that can allow for in-
creased duration in the astral plane and enhancing 
one’s Charisma. 
REAGENT: GROUND 
KILLDEER ANTLERS
Killdeer (p. 97, Howling Shadows) were original-
ly mutated whitetail deer that now breed true 
as their own unique strain. At first glance, they 
look similar to their original stock. The primary 
differences are the sharpened antler tips for gor -
ing prey and the elongated muzzle that contains 
sharp teeth for rending and tearing meat. These 
hardy creatures are omnivores, though unlike 
their whitetail predecessors, they subsist pri-
marily on meat and supplement with vegetation 
when hunting is poor. 
This species came into being after radiation mu-
tated the whitetail population in and around the 
suburbs of Chicago. From there, they have spread 
to cover entire swathes of the CAS and UCAS, as 
well as parts of the NAN. Their omnivorous nature 
makes them strong survivors in most environments. 
They tend to breed swiftly and are constantly ex-
panding their territory, pushing out the whitetail 
herds that provide an unwitting camouflage. 
Killdeer are sturdy beasts, and alchemists have 
found many ways to distill that nature into various 
compounds. Killdeer antlers in particular are po-
tent aids in healing, regeneration, and toxin-resis-
tance compounds. They may also be used in poi-
sons to sap these very characteristics, weakening 
targets or doing them injury. The rarity of this in-
gredient is reflected by the difficulty of obtaining 
the correct type of antler, which is challenging to 
distinguish from the whitetail, and as such, easily 
counterfeited. 
REAGENT: KAYERI 
MUSHROOM
Deep within the forests of Tír na nÓg dwell a pe-
culiar faerie known as the kayeri (p. 121, Court of 
Shadows). They are guardians and nurturers of the 
forest, along with the plants and animals within 
it. Resembling giant rabbits with extended jaws, 
carnivorous teeth, and mushrooms growing from 
their skulls, the kayeri are fierce protectors of 
their vegetative homes and require any outsiders 
who wish to access their lands to negotiate for 
the privilege. 
There are only two places one may find a kayeri. 
Their natural habitat within the forests of Tír na nÓg 
or select aspected domains of the Sixth World while 
they hunt down those who have desecrated their 
protected charges or one of their kin. The second is 
rather uncommon, as no kayeri wishes to leave its 
charge or community for very long. It takes an act 
of desecration or a desire for revenge to lure these 
protectors from the forests. Once removed, they are 
fiercely devoted to achieving their goal and return-
ing as swiftly as possible back to their home plane.
Kayeri mushrooms, once refined, are potent 
curatives for toxins, poisons, or diseases. Their 
healing properties are some of the most powerful 
available for alchemists to distill due to their in-
herent prime quality. While there is danger during 
the refinement process, the possible benefits that 
come from these curatives has outweighed the 
risk of vengeful rabbit fae descending upon the 
mortal plane. For now. 
NEW EXOTIC 
REAGENTS
The reagents detailed in this section are consid-
ered some of the most dangerous and difficult 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
190    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 191 =====
to acquire. They are powerful items that can be 
used by nearly every known tradition. Due to 
their inherent flexibility, they are highly sought 
after and usually quite expensive. Many of them 
serve as required reagents in some of the more 
powerful or rare compounds and preparations an 
alchemist can learn. Only the most adventurous 
or powerful can harvest these items, as not only 
are they difficult to find but also deadly to claim.
REAGENT: DRAKE SCALES
Drakes (p. 162, Howling Shadows) are powerful 
metahumans, either born as such or possessing 
the latent ability to transform. These creatures are 
the preferred minions of dragons, and most are 
bound to one or another as servants to the mighty 
beasts. They do have other uses however, and not 
merely to themselves. Alchemists and other magi-
cians have found that the different types of drake 
share a unique property. Their bodies are natural 
mana accumulators. This facility with mana makes 
the scales of a drake particularly potent reagents 
when properly harvested and refined. However, 
their sympathetic connection makes few drakes 
willing to part with their scales. 
Wherever you find a dragon, chances are you 
will find at least a few drake servants. This is, how-
ever, an incredibly dangerous way of finding har -
vestable reagents. More common are those who 
manage to identify lairs of unbound drakes or are 
lucky enough to clean up after confrontations. 
Both scenarios offer a somewhat safer avenue to 
harvest the valuable scales. 
Due to the different nature of each species of 
drake, their scales have been put to many varied 
uses once refined. Different traditions find vary -
ing degrees of synergy dependent on the breed 
of drake from which the scales originated. All 
agree they are powerful mana accumulators, and 
as such, their quality is never less than superior. A 
notable exception is that any breed of drake scale 
is useable in the compound formula recently un-
covered to combat the physical damage of drain. 
Predictably, demand for these items has skyrock -
eted in the magical community and black market. 
REAGENT: ORGAN OF 
INSECT SPIRIT HOST
The rise of the bug spirits and their shamans mak-
ing deeper inroads into the Sixth World has not 
been totally without benefit. Alchemists have dis-
covered that the organs of a host of one of these 
spirits can be a powerful reagent in many types of 
compounds and preparations. The otherworldly 
mana within them makes them excellent alchem-
ical agents. Viable even after the death of the 
host, different organs that have been subjected 
to the mana of these spirits take on interesting 
alchemical properties.
Chicago is still considered a hotbed of insect 
spirit activity, making it one of the most likely 
places to obtain an infected host, living or dead. 
The spread of these spirits has made it possible 
to find them in other areas as well. The corrupted 
mana of these spirits seems to linger after death, 
and grave robbing has been on the rise as indus-
trious alchemists follow the age-old adage of 
waste not, want not. 
The most potent use for this reagent is the al-
chemical compound that bonds the spirit and 
body of the astral traveler in such a way as to in-
crease their ability to manifest themselves. Other 
alchemical preparations and formulas that focus 
on travel or communication have also benefited 
by the use of these organs steeped in the mana of 
spirits from another plane. 
REAGENT: VEINS  
OF AN ADEPT
At the core of any type of reagent is its natural 
ability to accumulate and store mana. As such, 
some dark tradition alchemists have begun to ex-
periment with the body parts of those known to 
be a conduit for mana. Thus was born the formula 
that uses the veins of an adept to negate the risk 
of drain. Whether from grave robbing or harvest-
ing from captives, this reagent has tempted even 
the most noble due to the raw power granted 
by the compounds and alchemical mixtures that 
make use of them. 
Adepts may be found all over the Sixth World 
and some other planes that connect to it. Finding 
one already slain, or harvesting the veins from one 
still living, is another matter altogether. The adept 
community finds the rise in demand for their body 
parts for alchemical experimentation abhorrent. 
They actively seek out those who would use such 
things for their own particular brand of revenge. 
This particular reagent is often harvested by 
those of dark traditions, enterprising talismon-
gers who have made quite the tidy profit in selling 
compounds without mentioning the ingredients 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    191
===== PDF PAGE IDX 192 =====
they contain. Many care more about the effect 
than where it comes from. There are rumors that if 
the veins of an adept provide such a powerful re-
agent, perhaps other mana-wielding entities may 
have similar benefits, but alchemists are rarely will-
ing to encourage that line of thought. 
ALTERNATIVE USES 
FOR ORICHALCUM
Orichalcum is the professional standard across 
all magical traditions for reagents. This rare ma-
terial appears as an ethereal golden-orange col-
ored metal with the malleability of tin, and it can’t 
exist without the presence of magic. During the 
passage of Halley’s Comet, there were reports of 
orichalcum found by miners, alchemists, and re-
searchers. Since 2061, this phenomenon has nev-
er been repeated. The only reliable means to har -
vest orichalcum is for an alchemist to refine ten 
drams of gold, ten of copper, and ten of cinnabar 
in a laborious process that takes twenty-eight 
days to complete a single dram of orichalcum.
Orichalcum is commonly leveraged to supple-
ment power within a compound or preparation. It 
is universally compatible with any tradition, and as 
such, is ultimately useful for any alchemist or talis-
monger. Alchemists have experimented with this 
potent reagent since the dawn of the Sixth World 
and have uncovered many uses for it.
A single dram of orichalcum may be used to re-
place the need for any other specific reagent for 
a compound or alchemical preparation. Once the 
orichalcum has been created, an alchemist may 
now refine that dram further, to change and aug-
ment the aura to mimic another specific reagent. 
For example, when creating the poison known as 
Lot’s Curse (p. 220, Street Grimoire), a properly pre-
pared dram of orichalcum may be substituted for 
the normally required refined Gomorrah apple. An 
alchemist must have previously sensed the aura to 
be mimicked at least once in order to successfully 
transmute the aura of the orichalcum.
Orichalcum is such a strong conductor of mana 
that it may be used to enhance the effect of prepara-
tions. Any preparation that has a dram of orichalcum 
used within its creation retains full power for Potency 
x 3 hours, instead of the standard Potency x 2, be-
fore it begins to degrade. When used in the creation 
of items (other than compounds and the creation of 
reagents), orichalcum can reduce the object resis-
tance by 4 for any Enchanting test. It can also en-
hance the magnitude of any Sorcery test by increas-
ing the Magic rating by 5. No matter the use, adding 
orichalcum removes any Force limit involved, prov-
ing by this alone its incredible potency and value. 
NEW ALCHEMICAL 
TOOLS 
The lore of alchemy conjures images of bubbling 
beakers and strange apparatus that once facili-
tated failed attempts to recreate magic during 
the Fifth World. Some of these tools have been 
THE PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
Rumor, lore, and conspiracy theorists insist that there’s an 
alternative method of harvesting orichalcum. Behind closed 
doors, they speculate that this is the true meaning of what 
was known as the Philosopher’s Stone. The oft-told tales of 
turning lead into gold were merely allegory of harvesting the 
true “gold” of all reagents—orichalcum. None have been 
willing or able to confirm its existence directly, but legend 
holds a talented alchemist can discern the scent of the refined 
orichalcum via the Philosopher’s Stone. Some say that the 
material somehow feels like pure mana. Others say it smells of 
roses. Ancient stories also say that the Philosopher’s Stone is 
not found but made with exotic reagents and formula lost to the 
ages. Whether it is a secret rediscovered from the annals of 
the ancient past or an artifact recovered from some unknown 
tomb, none can be truly sure.
The legendary Philosopher’s Stone grants the possessor 
virtually unlimited access to orichalcum by reducing the time and 
materials necessary to refine a dram. It is said that instead of ten 
of each ingredient as in the normal refinement of orichalcum, 
only a single dram of each is needed. If true, an alchemist could 
create ten times the normal amount of orichalcum in a single 
session. Unlimited riches for the lucky possessor, assuming they 
could remain in possession of such an artifact long enough to 
make their fortune. If such an artifact exists, it remains a closely 
guarded secret by necessity, as there’s not an alchemist in the 
world who wouldn’t kill to possess it.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
192    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 193 =====
reinvented and repurposed in the Sixth World to 
help push the boundaries of alchemy. While the 
list below is not exhaustive, as additional tools 
are developed every day, several stand out in the 
field. Corporations and runners alike continue to 
develop any advantage they can to facilitate not 
just profit, but survival, within the Sixth World. 
ATOMIZER
Developed during the early resurgence of alchemy 
as a practice, the atomizer is more a delivery device 
than it is an actual tool. The key to this device lies 
in its ability to take solid or liquid compounds and 
break them down into an aerosol spray without any 
loss in power or effect. This enables both healing 
and poison effects that would normally be com-
mand triggered to be created as contact triggers 
while retaining efficacy. The nature of the atomizer 
itself keeps contact with the device from activat-
ing the contact trigger. This enables the atomizer 
to spray out its payload which will then activate 
upon contact. Rumors exist about atomizers that 
may hold more than one compound “cartridge” at 
a time, though none can verify the truth of them. 
Effect: One compound may be converted from 
a solid or liquid into an aerosol when inserted into 
the atomizer. Compounds made with a contact 
trigger are not enacted until they contact a sub-
stance after being fired from the atomizer. Atom-
izers can be used to make a ranged attack with a 
maximum range of three meters. 
Price: 500 nuyen for the atomizer itself, 5 nuy-
en for an empty cartridge
ALEMBIC
The original distillery, the term “alembic” en-
compasses all three pieces required for the dis-
tilling process. Alchemists may use this device 
to increase the potency of the product their re-
agents produce. By distilling down to the im-
portant essence, more refined reagents are pro-
duced during the process from the same original 
amount of base ingredient. As such, the standard 
ten drams of reagent will produce two drams of 
refined, instead of one. The same process applies 
to further enhancement of refined reagents into 
radicals at the same ratio. 
Effect: Using an alembic during the refinement 
process doubles the amount of refined or radical 
reagents created. 
Price: 3,000 nuyen
ATHANOR
An athanor is a furnace used in the alchemical re-
finement process. It provides a constant rate of 
heat vital to the successful creation of refined and 
radical reagents. New technologies have allowed 
for the perfection of this device, a rare case where 
technology benefits the magical rather than hin-
ders it. An athanor provides a strong and consis-
tent flame that requires little maintenance. This 
allows an alchemist to spend more time on other 
projects without having to constantly attend to 
other reagents they are refining. 
Effect: An athanor grants the alchemist leeway 
in the refinement and circulation process. During 
the refinement process of standard reagents, an 
alchemist may step away for up to one hour during 
the ten-hour process without ill effect. When un-
dergoing the month-long process of creating 
orichalcum, an alchemist may check on the refine-
ment process once every twelve hours, instead of 
every ten. 
Price: 1,000 nuyen
CRUCIBLE
No matter how careful the alchemist, there are 
times when reagents become corrupted, or when 
the reagents are lower quality than desired. The 
crucible was reintroduced to alchemy to combat 
this effect. Careful use of this device can allow an 
alchemist to steam away the impurities found in 
some reagents and increase their potency. There 
are limits of course, and a crucible can’t be ex-
pected to perform miracles. It can, however, al-
low a canny talismonger who is willing to take 
the time and effort to vastly increase their profit 
margin. By buying less desirable reagents and re-
fining them with a crucible, they can scrape every 
nuyen possible out of a sale. 
Effect: By using a crucible, an alchemist may 
upgrade the quality of a reagent one step. This 
takes the same amount of time as a standard re-
finement cycle of ten hours. A reagent may be 
upgraded from superior to prime in this manner, 
but it may not be enhanced any further than prime 
quality. 
Price: 500 nuyen
VAULT OF AGES
The “vault of ages” is the most common name 
for this relatively recent innovation. Taken from 
the habit of secretive alchemists who hide their 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    193
===== PDF PAGE IDX 194 =====
formulas and creations in secret vaults covered 
in traps, the preservative nature of this item 
gives it the name. First invented by a talismonger 
skilled in alchemy, the vault of ages helps miti-
gate the greatest flaw in crafted items. From the 
moment of creation, alchemical compounds and 
preparations begin to degrade. Dependent on 
the strength of the creator, they can quickly be-
come useless if too much time passes, becoming 
a massive waste of resources and time. The vault 
stabilizes alchemical creations, halting the degra-
dation process for the duration of time it remains 
within the vault. 
Effect: A vault of ages may store a number of 
alchemical compounds or preparations equal to 
twice the Magic rating of its creator. The Rating of 
these items cannot be more than twice the rating 
of the vault. While within the confines of the vault, 
these items do not degrade. The degradation 
clock starts ticking as soon as they are removed. 
Price: 2,000 nuyen per Magic Rating to a 
max of 5
NEW COMPOUNDS 
Alchemy is a constantly evolving field of mysti-
cal study as practitioners, from solo magicians 
to teams of corporate researchers, experiment 
and explore new uses for reagents. Their ultimate 
goal is to discover new compounds that will make 
them rich, famous, and/or powerful. Many who 
make such a discovery hoard their knowledge 
to corner the market and maximize their profits. 
There are also those who seek to reverse-engi-
neer the newest fad, analyzing a compound and 
taking it apart to find how it was made. Whether it 
is undercutting a rival or finding new and cheaper 
ways to produce the compound, any talismonger 
worth their salt always has their ear to the ground 
for the newest creation. 
Persistent runners can find talismongers willing 
to sell some of these compounds, but it’s neither 
easy nor cheap—due to the time it takes to cre-
ate them versus the time they last before potency 
runs out, these compounds are not exactly sitting 
on store shelves. Still, runners are known for hav -
ing contacts who might have unlikely items, and 
sometimes a talismonger friend might just have 
the item on hand that can provide important assis-
tance to a runner team.
The lack of a standard market for these items 
leads to a lack of standard pricing. Still, there is a 
baseline to consider, and it looks like this: [(Force 
of spell involved) + (Current Potency)] x 500¥. 
Another factor that might raise the price is wheth-
er there is a current scarcity of required reagents 
(either globally or locally). Base availability for 
all compounds is 14R. Creating alchemical com-
pounds requires advanced alchemy metamagic 
(p. 153, Street Grimoire).
ALCHEMICAL DUCT TAPE
Few things have endeared alchemists to riggers 
and deckers more than the creation of this com-
pound. While on a run, there is never enough 
time to repair a damaged vehicle or drone to per-
fection. Sometimes you just need to get it work -
ing and get moving. That’s where alchemical duct 
tape comes in. By slapping this on and activating 
the compound, complex repairs can be achieved 
in an instant. Use of this compound is the only 
magical repair possible, after which more mun-
dane efforts are required to fix the machine.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, this compound 
magically repairs a non-living target. Each 
hit upon activation repairs one point of 
structure or one box of damage, as per the 
spell Fix (p. 1 16, Street Grimoire).
• Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined mallard fat
ASTRAL INCREASE 
The limits on a magician’s ability to manifest 
can seriously threaten the success of a run. Al-
chemists have finally created a solution for this 
problem thanks to the rediscovery of the ghost 
orchid. These ethereal flower petals enhance the 
magician within the astral plane. The careful and 
ALCHEMICAL TOOLS
ITEM COST AVAILABILITY
Atomizer 500¥ 4
     Cartridge 5¥ 2
Athanor 1,000¥ 4
Crucible 500 2
Vault of ages 2,000 x Rating (Rating +4)R
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
194    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 195 =====
repeated refinement imbues the user with that 
dual nature, enhancing their physical and ethe-
real nature at the same time. Ghost orchids are 
incredibly difficult to cultivate outside of the wild. 
Doing so requires a level of care and concern that 
few are willing to put forth. Ghost orchids are 
most potent when harvested under the light of a 
full moon, especially in spots where the light may 
reach the petals unimpeded. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: Once ingested, this compound dou-
bles the amount of time a magician may re-
main manifested while in astral projection.
• Aftereffect: Winded side effect
• Required Reagent: Radical ghost orchid 
petals.
ASTRAL BOND
Normally the bond between body and soul is not 
strong enough to invoke other prepared items in 
the alchemist arsenal. This compound resolves 
that issue, reinforcing that bond and allowing 
mana to flow to the prepared items. This com-
pound mystically encases that elusive connect-
ing silver cord in steel, conveying a stronger bond 
between body and soul while inhibiting neither. 
While under the effect of this compound, many 
users have spoken of the ease of travel and re-
sponse while astral, almost as if their body itself 
was there instead of just their soul. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: While this compound lasts, the 
bond between body and astral form is 
much stronger. While manifesting, the tar -
get may activate command triggers. 
• Aftereffect: Can’t Speak side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined organ from in-
sect host.
BAOBHAN’S TEARS
The worst nightmare of many a magician, bao-
bhan’s tears is a contact poison that deals dam-
age to the body as well as to the ability to shape 
mana. While this compound does not share the 
addictive qualities of the real kiss, the blend of 
euphoria remains, even while at odds with the 
damage it inflicts on the body. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: Upon contact with the skin or in-
halation, this poison deals 4P damage that 
may only be resisted by Body. If any dam-
age is not resisted, the target also loses 1 
point of Essence for the next twenty-four 
hours. Repeated doses of this poison may 
inflict damage, but only 1 point of Essence 
may be lost during the twenty-four-hour 
period after initial infection.
• Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined tears of a bao-
bhan sith (p. 1 14, Court of Shadows)
DRAIN AWAY
Holding the ability to lower the damage caused 
by drain, this compound has become one of the 
most feared in the arsenal of dark aspect magi-
cians. It can only be made with the mana-fueled 
veins of an adept, and producing this compound 
pushes past lines even most shadowrunners will 
not cross. Countless adepts perished before the 
formula was perfected. Now it spreads deep 
within the shadows for those willing to pay the 
price for power. Dark traditions and insect sha-
mans are known to carry a dose as a trump card 
few could expect.
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: Once imbibed, the next time the 
target would take physical damage from 
drain, that damage is negated.
• Aftereffect: Nauseated side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined veins of the 
adept
DULLED EDGES 
When damage is inevitable, reducing the target’s 
ability to inflict damage itself is a cunning tool. 
This poison dulls the edges of the target, lower -
ing their reaction times, weakening their muscles, 
and sapping their strength. Even the mightiest 
street samurai fears the moment when their body 
is turned against them. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: Once it contacts a target, this com-
pound decreases the target’s Physical limit 
by 2 for 3 turns. 
• Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
• Required Reagent: Radical killdeer antler 
(p. 97, Howling Shadows)
FEEL NO PAIN
Known as FNP on the streets, feel no pain delays 
the need for sleep, food, or even water. While it 
doesn’t eliminate these urges, it can delay them 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    195
===== PDF PAGE IDX 196 =====
until the user is in a better place to handle these 
basic needs. Quite popular among corp workers 
who are closing in on a project deadline, since 
nothing gets you through it faster than a bit of 
FNP. There are very real dangers when it comes to 
this alchemical compound. More than three days 
of consecutive use of FNP brings risks of addic-
tion as well as fatigue and disorientation (Addic-
tion Rating 4, Addiction Threshold 2; see p. 1 72, 
409, and 414, SR5).
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, every net hit counts 
as one hour of sleep for the purposes of 
resisting fatigue. It also allows a target to 
skip one meal per net hit with no ill effects. 
When the duration of FNP ends, the effects 
of dehydration and starvation immediately 
apply to the subject. 
• Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
• Required Reagent: Radical kayeri mush-
room
FORCE OF PERSONALITY
For those who heavily engage in combat in the 
astral plane, this compound is a godsend. Alche-
mists have developed a gel that enhances the abil-
ity of a magician or adept to deal damage to astral 
creatures and constructs alike. The compound can 
also be helpful to non-magicians who wish to dis-
play enhanced levels of charisma and charm. Few 
are willing to endure the side effects without sub-
stantial reason, due to the risks it entails.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: This compound must be applied to 
the target’s skin and then activated. While 
active, the target’s Charisma is increased 
by 2 for the purposes of astral combat 
only. Such an artificial increase manifest-
ing on the astral plane requires a potent 
ability, and comes with an equally debili-
tating side effect.
• Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
• Required Reagent: Radical ghost orchid 
petals
HMHVV II INHIBITOR 
Developed in secret by the Aztechnology Al-
chemy division, this compound is only sold and 
then administered to approved and vetted elite 
corporate citizens who sign a specialized NDA 
to prevent rogue alchemists from attempting to 
reverse-engineer it. A new and rare inoculation, 
this magical compound prevents further progress 
of HMHVV II as long as the compound is contin-
ually ingested. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: This compound must be con-
sumed once every seven days. As long 
as the regimen is maintained, all progress 
of HMHVV II is halted. This is not a cure, 
merely an inhibitor. Failure to continue 
dosing will allow the virus to progress 
once more, often more virulent than be-
fore due to the repression. There is also 
a possibility of addiction when using the 
inhibitor; it has Addiction Rating 3, Ad-
diction Threshold 1.
• Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined drop bear sali-
va (p. 60, Howling Shadows)
LAMINATE 
Many traditions use writings or symbols painted 
or drawn upon an item for their alchemical prepa-
rations. These markings are susceptible to dam-
age or accident, rendering the time and energy 
spent on them wasted. Recently, the infamous 
alchemist Megalith released this compound to 
spite the Aztechnology Alchemical division.
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: An aerosol spray that when applied 
coats a layer of writing or runes in a thin 
protective gel. Unable to stand up to any 
real damage, (1 point of Physical damage 
destroys the layer) it will protect from ac-
cidental scuffing or blurring through in-
advertent contact. For example, a sword 
with runes drawn upon the blade may be 
sheathed and unsheathed without damag-
ing the inked writing. 
• Aftereffect: Blinded (One Eye) side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined slug glands
PERFECT SIGHT
Perfect sight has hit the streets, and for the first 
time non-magicians have an inkling of what it’s 
like to see the astral plane. Some use this just as a 
recreational drug, seeing sights they never imag-
ined could exist from the comfort of their own 
homes. Enterprising runners and corporations 
have also made use of this compound. Guards 
can detect the dual-natured, or even warn their 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
196    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 197 =====
superiors about astral beings attempting to ac-
cess secure locations. Runners can keep an eye 
on their astral counterparts without requiring 
them to waste time manifesting. This increased 
bond to the astral does come at a cost however, 
as use of this increases the noise (p. 441, SR5) in 
the local area.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When applied to the eyes and 
commanded to activate, this compound 
allows the target to perceive the astral 
plane. Throughout the duration of this 
compound, the ambient noise in an area 
is increased by the net hits achieved when 
activated as per the spell Interference (p. 
117,  Street Grimoire)
• Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined ghost orchid 
petals
SHARPSHOOTER
One shot, one kill. The motto of the sniper, and 
harder to accomplish in this age of advanced 
magical and mundane protection. This com-
pound returns some of that danger and abili-
ty to the sniper by removing the pesky im-
pediments of range or perception. A cunning 
alchemist has managed to combine the spells 
of Hawkeye and Enhance Aim into one easy-
to-use compound. Even the most experienced 
sniper or gunslinger likes to have a little Sharp-
shooter on hand to ensure they don’t miss when 
they take aim. 
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: Applied to the eyes or in a quickly 
digestible pill, Sharpshooter improves the 
target’s aim as well as negating range mod-
ifiers in increasing increments. For each net 
hit, reduce Range conditions by one cate-
gory (p. 1 75, SR5). It also grants a +1 dice 
pool modifier for any visual-based percep-
tion tests. 
• Aftereffect: Blinded (one eye)
• Required Reagent: Radical eyes of a bird 
of prey.
UNSTOPPABLE VIGOR
Another powerful tool in the arsenal of the ma-
gician, this compound makes even the frailest 
mana worker more likely to survive extended 
spellcasting. Far more than the blades or bul-
lets of enemies, drain itself becomes an unwary 
spellcaster’s greatest foe. This compound forc-
es an unnatural stamina to suffuse the body of a 
magician in order to combat the physical dam-
age that drain may inflict. It is a double-edged 
sword, as this increased hardiness can convince 
some to cast spells far beyond their power un-
til they become addicted to it (the compound 
has Addiction Rating 6, Addiction Threshold 
3). This forces them to continue consuming the 
compound to survive the repeated damage of 
drain.
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: Once imbibed, the target gains a 
number of boxes on their Stun Condition 
Monitor equal to the potency of the com-
pound. These boxes are only useful for re-
sisting the damage associated with drain. 
Once the potency expires or the boxes are 
full from drain damage, they disappear and 
the effect ends.
• Aftereffect: Slowed side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined drake scales 
(any type)
WATER BREATHING 
There are those who refuse to let such a minor 
setback as being underwater stop them in their 
quest for hidden riches. Use of this compound 
magically imbues the user with gills, allowing 
them to breath easily underwater. This is not 
some mystical conversion, but rather true gills, 
which can be problematic to the inexperienced 
user. While this compound remains in effect, the 
user cannot breathe air alone; they must take 
their oxygen from the water. As such, the truly in-
novative have taken advantage of this fact, apply-
ing the compound to a target and then watching 
their victim suffocate before them.
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: The target is empowered with the 
Gills critter power (p. 192, Howling Shad-
ows). While this compound is active, the 
target has real working gills and may only 
breathe underwater. Canceling this effect 
removes them and returns the ability to 
breathe air.
• Aftereffect: Winded side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined salmon scales
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    197
===== PDF PAGE IDX 198 =====
NEW ALCHEMICAL 
PREPARATIONS
Alchemical preparations are spells that rely on 
a physical conduit, called the lynchpin, to chan-
nel mana from the astral to the physical realm to 
activate them. Lynchpins are the weak spot in 
any alchemical preparation, as even the slightest 
damage to them will render the entire prepara-
tion inoperable. They can take many forms, from 
arcane writing on paper to the severed hand of 
a murderer mystically imbued with power. Tradi-
tion and imagination are the limit when it comes 
to alchemically preparing a vessel for a spell. 
Rules for purchasing preparations follows the 
same outline as buying compounds (p. 194), name-
ly that they are hard to find—in fact, even more so 
because of the shorter lifespan. The base price is 
[(Force of spell involved) + (Current Potency)] x 
500¥. Base availability for all preparations is 14R.
ABANDON ALL HOPE
Another popular trap and defensive preparation, this 
preparation increases an aura of fear and helpless-
ness in the entire area when activated. By setting this 
up in an area where other traps are located, it be-
comes much easier to deter any who seek to beard 
the alchemist in their lair. This preparation is often 
set upon something of value left easily found. As the 
magic is undetectable until activated, once a would-
be thief touches the item, the fear aura ignites.
• Trigger: Contact 
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Foreboding spell upon the area. 
• Required Spell: Foreboding (p. 1 12, Street 
Grimoire)
BARRICADE
A few seconds can seem a lifetime, or make all 
the difference in the world. Upon activating this 
preparation, the structural integrity of a wall or 
door can be increased. Traditional-minded alche-
mists use runes written on paper, which is then 
applied to the target. Other, more innovative 
methods, such as a penny in the door seam, can 
work just as well when properly prepared.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: Upon activation, the spell Reinforce 
is cast on the object the preparation has 
been applied to. 
• Required Spell: Reinforce (p. 1 18, Street 
Grimoire)
BURN, BABY, BURN
Triple B is one of the most versatile trap-style 
preparations and can take many forms. A room 
filled with flammable gas, with a hidden rune 
upon the floor that ignites the entire room in 
flames. A grenade of flammable liquid, with a 
command rune inscribed upon it. There are myr -
iad ways to capitalize on something igniting in 
flames on command.
• Trigger: Command 
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Ignite spell upon the target. 
• Required Spell: Ignite (p. 293, SR5)
DO YOUR BEST
Unleashing the limits of body or mind can make 
the difference in any battle. This preparation al-
lows an alchemist to raise the effectiveness of 
herself and others. While this isn’t a guaranteed 
win, it greatly increases the chance of success in 
whatever endeavors a runner might undertake. 
Coated pills are a common form for this prepara-
tion, and when the command word is spoken the 
spell activates. 
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Increase Inherent Limits spell 
upon the target. Only one limit may be in-
creased at one time, and further activation 
of this eliminates the previous version. 
• Required Spell: Increase Inherent Limits 
(p. 1 10, Street Grimoire)
GET AWAY FROM MY RIDE
A getaway vehicle is nothing if it can’t help run-
ners escape. It’s a weakness in any plan, and as 
such, alchemists have devised a way to protect 
that key element of any good escape. Emblems 
and decals are popular forms for these prepara-
tions to make them blend in with the vehicle and 
hide their magical nature until it is too late. 
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Protect Vehicle spell upon the 
target vehicle.
• Required Spell: Protect Vehicle (p. 1 1 7, 
Street Grimoire)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
198    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 199 =====
HIGH AS A KITE
It’s not always about solving the problem yourself. 
Some of the most powerful preparations are ones 
that set up the rest of the team to succeed. The use 
of this preparation lowers the target’s ability to resist 
toxins and drugs. This can set up other teammates to 
deliver devastating attacks. This is most commonly 
prepared on projectiles for easy delivery.
• Trigger: Command 
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Enabler spell. 
• Required Spell: Enabler (p. 1 10, Street Gri-
moire)
NOISE ON THE LINE
Deckers, riggers, and other skilled Matrix users 
can present a unique problem for magicians. To 
prevent such issues before they can arise, this 
preparation increases the noise in the area, mak -
ing the Matrix more difficult to use and access. 
Few things are more likely to incite the hacker 
population than frequent use of this compound. 
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, enacts the Increase 
Noise spell. 
• Required Spell: Increase Noise (p. 1 16, 
Street Grimoire)
NOMW (NOT ON MY WATCH)
Sometimes the difference between living and dying 
is so razor thin, even a spell will not be fast enough. 
For this reason, alchemists created a contact prepa-
ration to stabilize critically wounded individuals just 
long enough to get them the help they need. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: When contact is made, the spell 
Stabilize (p. 289, SR5) is enacted upon the 
target. 
• Required Spell: Stabilize
LIGHTNING BLADE 
Even with ceramics, plastics, and mystical armor, 
there are those who place their faith in a layer of 
metal between them and those who would do 
them harm. Alchemists have perfected a prepara-
tion to remind them of the error of their ways. By 
imbuing a weapon with the power of lightning, the 
protection of metal armor becomes nullified and 
the damage becomes resistible by the body alone.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: Written upon a blade or other weap-
on, when activated this preparation makes 
the next successful attack unable to be re-
sisted by metal armor. 
• Required Spell: Lightning Bolt (p. 284, SR5)
• 
SPIRIT ZAPPER
Spirits can serve as weapons both offensive and 
defensive, as well as the ultimate spies. This 
preparation is important for any magician wish-
ing to guard their secrets against spirits trespass-
ing on their astral domain.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: This preparation comes in many 
forms, from candles made of exotic materi-
als to runes and diagrams written out in dif-
ferent forms and languages. No matter the 
actual form, the effect remains. When acti-
vated, it creates a barrier just as the Mana 
Barrier spell, or the Offensive Mana Barrier 
spell, depending on the preparation. 
• Required Spell: Mana Barrier (p. 294, SR5) or 
Offensive Mana Barrier (p. 1 1 7, Street Grimoire)
STINK BOMB
A trap to disable a would-be thief with gut-wrench-
ing sickness, a tool to incapacitate enemies chas-
ing a runner down a darkened alley … there are 
myriad uses for the stink bomb, limited only by 
the cleverness of the user.
• Trigger: Command or Contact, depending 
on use
• Effect: On command or contact, dependent 
on the trigger chosen, the Stench spell is en-
acted over the area, affecting enemies and 
allies alike. 
• Required Spell: Stench (p. 1 13, Street Grimoire)
STOP THIEF!
Quick to produce and relatively inexpensive, these 
preparations are incredibly popular with talismon-
gers as both a deterrent as well as a demonstration. 
This preparation can be done on anything from a 
welcome mat with hidden writing to a throwable 
ball that bonds to whatever it touches when the 
command word is spoken. Stopping thieves in their 
tracks or marking them for later identification are 
common uses, though tagging people with an RFID 
that can be used for tracking or drone targeting are 
other possible options.
• Trigger: Command
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    199
===== PDF PAGE IDX 200 =====
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Glue Strip spell. 
• Required Spell: Glue Strip (p. 1 16, Street 
Grimoire)
TRUTH SERUM
When you absolutely must get to the truth, noth-
ing can beat this type of preparation. While it may 
require other types of coercion to get the target 
to actually speak, with this you can be assured 
whatever words come out of their mouth are 
the truth. Handcuffs and manacles are the most 
common forms of preparation, as they are easily 
locked on and activated. Some prefer to put this 
in pill form, just for the drama of making some-
one swallow a truth drug.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, this preparation en-
acts the Compel Truth spell upon the target. 
• Required Spell: Compel Truth (p. 1 14, Street 
Grimoire)
UP AND AT ’EM
It is always easier to help a comrade run than 
it is to haul an unconscious body. These occa-
sions are what this preparation is designed for. 
A quick slap of a patch and the command word, 
and even the most stunned individual will regain 
consciousness. If nothing else, they can then be 
awake to see any further attacks coming.   
• Trigger: Most commonly Command or 
Contact
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Awaken spell upon the target. 
• Required Spell: Awaken (p. 109, Street 
Grimoire)
WATCH YOUR STEP
Inventive users can find plenty of uses for a sud-
den sheet of ice. From sending vehicles chasing 
them crashing into the streets to rendering ene-
mies too worried about their footing to try to do 
anything else, the possibilities are endless.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Ice Sheet spell on the area. 
• Required Spell: Ice Sheet (p. 293, SR5)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
200    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 201 =====
THE SYNERGY OF 
ALCHEMY AND 
DARK TRADITIONS
> If you can manage to look away from the cool explosions, 
you’ll find that ultimately, alchemy is about methodology 
and preparation. If you can figure out how to reproduce 
results while cutting corners on the means of production, 
you have the edge. Some alchemists are willing to dive 
head first into the shadows of the dark traditions for any 
advantage. Those who practice such traditions aren’t 
the talkative type, and most aren’t willing to share their 
secrets at any price lest they be incriminated. So treat the 
information here as the rare and precious jewel it is.
> Megalith
Practitioners of the dark traditions gravitate 
toward alchemy, attracted to its dispassionate, re-
sults-orientated methodology of gaining power. 
They leverage the unique capabilities of alchemi-
cal tools and reagents to fuel their unending quests 
for power without the shackles of morality. In their 
pursuit of an exotic reagent or unknown formula, a 
dark alchemist will plunder a sacred burial ground, 
murder a kayeri for their cap, or even harvest the 
veins from a living adept via vivisection. These re-
pulsive experiments have secretly led to some of 
the newest formulas and potent compounds and 
preparations that even the most law-abiding find 
indispensable. 
BLOOD MAGIC
Alchemists who practice this dark tradition must 
surrender their squeamishness to forever walk in 
the shadows, surrendering completely to their am-
bition and hunger for power. Blood magicians har-
vest reagents through seduction, temptation, and 
sacrifice, making the conscious decision to trade 
the suffering of others for power and prestige. 
The great advantage of the dark alchemist le-
veraging blood magic is that reagents harvested 
from time-consuming sacrifice work as a perfect 
substitute for orichalcum (see Reagents, p. 316, 
SR5). This blood reagent must be utilized immedi-
ately, lest it forever lose its potency. However, the 
nature of such a harvesting requires the dark al-
chemist spend three times the normal duration to 
prepare the sacrifice, requiring sacred alchemical 
compounds such as poisons and paralytics to en-
sure the suffering and ultimate death of their vic-
tims. Practitioners of this tradition who combine it 
with alchemy also learn to combine their efforts 
into a gruesome whole. They may create any com-
pound or preparation to trigger at the moment of 
death, either of themselves or one of their victims. 
Blood magicians first discovered the infamous 
reagent known as veins of the adept (see p. 191), 
which is the core reagent required for a powerful 
alchemical compound with the ability to com-
pletely negate drain damage. Rumor has it that the 
unknown alchemist who discovered this reagent 
willingly shared their secret with the world to fuel 
an unending vendetta against adepts for some 
grave slight.
Sacrifices may be shared among blood magi-
cians without the dilution of the potency of the 
harvested reagent. A blood magician often pairs 
with a couple of apprentices and cultists who 
serve as additional allies—or in desperate times, 
as power sources. Together, they perform mul-
tiple sacrifices within an area to taint the mana 
with pain and suffering in order to synergize the 
reagents to their tradition. This takes repeated 
sacrifices and torture to accomplish, but few who 
are so far down the path of blood magic will flinch 
at such a minor requirement. They find synergy in 
any reagents that were once part of living, feeling 
beings. While they’d prefer to do the bloodletting 
and harvesting themselves, they will make use of 
what comes available. Areas of past pain and suf-
fering are the preferred places for harvesting re-
agents for a blood magician.
INSECT MAGIC
Followers of the Insect Way have a single, 
all-important goal: to seek a place with high am-
bient mana, fortify it, and then summon a queen 
to create a hive. To achieve this end, insect sha-
mans infect metahuman host bodies with lesser 
insect spirits. These infected hosts aid the shaman 
in progressing the goals of the hive, serving as de-
fenders, workers, and minions of the shaman who 
summoned them until their queen arrives. 
An alchemist who follows the Insect Way pos-
sesses an innate spiritual connection to the other-
worldly mana infused within the body of an infect-
ed host. They may leverage this to quickly harvest 
reagents from the organs of any infected host. This 
process kills the host, but the harvesting process 
takes half the normal time. The ease of harvest-
ing this key component allows insect shamans to 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    201