
===== PDF p184 =====
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    183

===== PDF p185 =====
Alchemy is the amalgamation of primal mystical 
power and application of mana with the metic-
ulous research methodology of science. This 
mystical art is believed to have been discovered 
during the Fourth World by magicians on the is-
land of Thera, commonly known as Atlantis. The 
legends surrounding alchemy echoed in the hu-
man subconscious during the magical drought of 
the Fifth World, emboldening scholars to attempt 
to master the compound formula for transmuting 
lead into gold. These misguided would-be-magi-
cians, trapped in a dark age devoid of mana and 
magic, failed to comprehend the essence of this 
lost art. They falsely believed that alchemy was 
merely the ability to transmute substances from 
one form to another; a means to turn simple lead 
into precious gold. 
Mana naturally accumulates in plants, animals, 
objects, and places heavy with the weight of his-
tory. Alchemists harvest reagents from materials 
that have absorbed this ambient mana and refine 
them into mystical compounds and alchemical 
preparations to produce fantastic, otherworldly 
effects. Once a reagent is spent, the mana within 
dissipates, but the physical form remains, allowing 
an alchemist to harvest it later once it reabsorbs 
mana. The sad truth is most reagents are fairly 
common but take a good deal of time and skill to 
locate and harvest as needed. This process isn’t 
cheap or easy, which is why most magicians seek 
out common reagents at their local talismonger, 
preferring to pay for the time and expertise over 
the drudgery of doing it themselves. For more in-
formation about harvesting reagents, see p. 304, 
SR5, and p. 209, Street Grimoire.
With the proper time and material, an alche-
mist might brew a potion that extends a magi-
cian’s ability to astrally project, create a fetish 
that reduces drain when a specific spell is cast, 
or generate a manatech alchemical preparation 
that temporarily increases the limit of a weapon. 
The quality of a reagent is measured in terms of 
drams of orichalcum. Refined and radical reagents 
can increase the potency and duration of the fi-
nal product, and they can also decrease the drain 
cost for its creation. Once the proper formula has 
been discovered or learned, an alchemist might 
use a refined or radical reagent to create a mys-
tical compound or alchemical preparation that 
charges mundane objects to release stored spells 
when triggered, infuse a torch with an oil that will 
repel bug spirits when lit, or even brew a potion 
that will heal wounds or temporarily retard the ad-
vancement of mystical illnesses, such as the Hu-
man-Metahuman Vampiric Virus. For more infor-
mation about the quality of reagents, see p. 228, 
Street Grimoire; to explore new refined and radical 
reagents, see p. 187. 
A magician may use any reagent in a pinch, 
but if it isn’t directly from their magical tradition, 
then it only works at half-strength. For example, a 
hermetic alchemist can leverage a refined gris-gris 
bag, but it just doesn’t work as well. 
In the Sixth World, alchemy has once again 
captured humanity’s imagination. This time it 
isn’t gold for which they dream, but a cure to the 
plagues of the modern age, the promise of healthy 
life, and quick solutions for the elite who can af-
ford it. Local talismongers serve as the apothecar-
ies of ages past, curing those who can pay from 
the neighborhoods while the rich and elite pay for 
top corporate-generated formulas that keep them 
young and heathy. 
LIFE OF A 
CORPORATE 
ALCHEMIST
Once, alchemy was the sole dominion of the elite 
magicians who prepared their brews and com-
FORBIDDEN ARCANA
ADVANCED
ALCHEMY
184    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p186 =====
pounds solely for their own benefit or to serve 
wealthy patrons. The megacorporations sensed 
profit to be exploited and began to apply their 
vast resources and knowledge of mass produc-
tion to push talismonger shops to the edges of 
society. Why go through the hassle of harvest-
ing a common reagent yourself, or pay an unsa-
vory middleman when you can purchase from 
a trusted corporation that offers a warranty on 
their products made to special order? Most folks 
ignore the rumors about the corporations over-
harvesting Native land for the mana to produce 
alchemical preparations that line the shelves of 
expensive boutique stores promising youth, vig-
or, and extended life.
Discovering a new formula that remixes stan-
dard reagents into new, exciting compounds is a 
matter of the inspiration of genius mixed in with 
countless research hours and resources. It might 
not be easy to purchase inspiration or genius, but 
when you have unlimited nuyen to throw at a pet 
project, anything becomes possible. Those with 
magical talent and the scientific bent often have 
a strong independent streak, but corporate head-
hunters get big bonuses for finding young hope-
fuls with a lack of education and dire economic 
straits. With their heads filled with promises of a 
bright, upwardly mobile future, these poor bas-
tards get roped into indentured servitude, hocking 
their potential for a comfortable present.
Corporate life feels like heaven to the con-
scripts from the wilds until the alchemists learn 
propriety information in terms of formulas or in-
formation about rare reagents. Success comes 
at a steep price for the corporate alchemist. The 
research and development of a new alchemical 
compound might cost millions of nuyen, but once 
the formula has been peer reviewed and can be 
duplicated for mass production, the actual cost for 
the final product might be relatively minuscule. If 
another alchemist—or worse, a rival corporation—
learns this formula, millions could be lost. Thus, 
the secrets of these formulas must be protected 
at all costs. 
A good alchemist is as much an artist as a sci-
entist, and that perfect storm is hard to cultivate. 
Good corporate citizens understand that privacy 
is sometimes a luxury that must be denied to pro-
tect corporate assets. 
MANATECH: RISKS 
AND REWARDS
Manatech is the catch-all term to describe the al-
chemical processes that bridge the gap between 
technology and magic. This encompasses all 
spells and alchemical compounds that directly 
affect tech and machines (positively and nega-
tively) to devices specifically engineered to en-
hance the use or creation of magic. Where there 
is nuyen to be made or power to be had, both 
runners and corporations will spare no expense 
and risk anything to remain on the cutting edge.
LIVING AS A CORPORATE ALCHEMIST
POSTED BY: MEGALITH
Life as a corporate alchemist was sweet and easy. So long 
as I produced and didn’t ask too many questions, they gave me 
anything I wanted. And once I settled down and had a family, 
they owned me and anything I created for them. Worst part 
was that life was so easy I’d still be there, if my son hadn’t 
contracted HMHVV on a stupid teenage joy-ride out into the 
barrens. We had a compound that would have prevented him 
from turning, but corporate insurance didn’t cover it. I wanted to 
research a cure, but that wasn’t profitable, so I defected. And I 
hope to find him one day and take revenge on the bastards who 
wouldn’t help him.
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    185

===== PDF p187 =====
Mixing magic and technology can bring great 
rewards. Ask any spell slinger if they haven’t con-
sidered an upgrade to their senses or body, and 
they will tell you the same thing. Sometimes it’s 
worth the damage, but it better be important. In-
corporating technology into the body of a magi-
cian or adept affects their Essence, the source of 
their magic. The more extensive the cyberware, 
the deeper the impact on the Essence of the ma-
gician or adept. While the more cutting edge and 
expensive versions of cyberware, or even bioware, 
can mitigate this damage, nothing can ever elim-
inate it completely. The same holds true for the 
effect of magic on technology. The more magic in 
an area, the more ambient noise. This can, in some 
instances, impact how technology works, making 
it more difficult to access the Matrix. 
Alchemists are unfortunate in that they suffer 
in both these instances. Heavy use of magic can 
affect the tech they use to enhance their creations, 
just as too much tech can influence the potency of 
their creations. As such, they are very careful on 
what combinations they use. The key seems to be 
using tech to assist in the creation of their project, 
or as the target, but rarely both. Tools such as the 
crucible, vault of ages, or alembic are all examples 
of ways that clever alchemists have managed to 
leverage the power of technology to create fast-
er and more powerful products. By ensuring that 
each aspect of the process is carefully balanced 
between magic and technology, powerful effects 
can be generated at low risk—something every tal-
ismonger or corporation will agree is always the 
best solution. The other option is to create magical 
compounds and preparations that have little tech 
involved in their creation, instead targeting tech-
nology itself through machines, the Matrix, or the 
cyberware of others. This tightrope is hard to walk, 
but alchemists are always willing to experiment. 
The risks and rewards of manatech are myri-
ad. Clever runners will maximize the power while 
minimizing the cost and risk, something even cor-
porations can agree is the ultimate strategy. The 
true power of manatech is the constant progress 
it inspires. Each blending of magic and technolo-
gy encourages others to take it to the next step. 
Go one further. Make it better, faster, or cheaper. 
The constant need sustains this continuing state of 
progress to remain one step ahead, staying clear 
of those who are right behind, waiting for a single 
mistake. 
NEW SPELL: ALTER BALLISTICS
(MANIPULATION, PHYSICAL)
	
Type: P	
Range: T
	
Duration: I	
Drain: (F – 2)
The Alter Ballistics spell is a spell unique to the Alchemical 
Armorer that allows them to alter the ballistic properties of 
bullets or add helpful effects like noise reduction. This spell 
only works as an alchemical preparation that uses a bullet 
as the lynchpin. Bullets used as a lynchpin may only be fired 
by Single Shot weapons. The preparation must be activated 
before it is fired or the lynchpin will be destroyed by firing the 
bullet. When using a command trigger, a character may choose 
to activate a single preparation normally (with a Simple Action) 
or any number of bullets (including all of them) at a time with 
a Complex Action. When activated, the preparation lasts for a 
number of minutes equal to the Force of the preparation. When 
crafting the lynchpin, the character must specify and make a 
record of the effects they would like the bullet to have, in order, 
from most desired to least desired. When the preparation is 
activated, each net hit will add the listed properties to the 
bullet in the specified order until net hits or the list of chosen 
effects is exhausted.
LIST OF EFFECTS
•	 Double weapon range (changing all categories of range 
modifiers).
•	 –4 dice pool modifier to Perception tests to notice gunfire.
•	 +1 Accuracy.
•	 Deformation Resistance: –2 AP, –1 DV. Deformation-
resistant bullets do not deform when fired or upon impact, 
which inflicts a –4 dice pool penalty to any Armorer tests 
to identify the weapon that fired the bullet. Cannot be used 
with hollow-point ammunition. 
•	 Increased Deformation: +2 AP, +1 DV. Cannot be used with APDS.
•	 Astral signature fade time reduced by 50 percent.
•	 Impact Dispersion: Reduces the Physical limit of a 
character by 2 when comparing it to the DV to determine 
knockdown.
•	 Frangible: Treat any barrier the ammo hits as if its Armor 
were twice normal.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
186    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p188 =====
NEW REAGENTS OF 
THE SIXTH WORLD 
Gathering and refining reagents is the staple of 
the alchemist. Reagents are measured by the spe-
cific amount required to be equivalent in strength 
to a dram of orichalcum. For example, a physi-
cal pound of gris-gris dust from a less-refined 
reagent might only hold the mystical equivalent 
of a few drams of orichalcum. With the myriad 
of traditions and paths different practitioners of 
magic employ, there is always a high demand for 
reagents of different styles and types. As many 
traditions are careful to protect their secrets, a 
successful alchemist or talismonger seeks to pro-
vide a vast selection of reagents and takes careful 
notes about who purchases what. 
HARVESTING REAGENTS
Mana flows and pools throughout the Sixth World, 
creating rich veins where alchemists and talismon-
gers harvest reagents. Sadly for those aspiring en-
trepreneurs, the safer and better known the area, 
the less likely it is to find reagents that are rare or 
powerful and command the highest prices. This 
quest to find new locations to harvest has led to 
the discovery of some rare and exotic ingredients 
that are just now becoming known to alchemists 
in the shadows as well as their corporate brethren. 
OVERHARVESTING REAGENTS
Once an area has been properly harvested of re-
agents, it can take forty-eight hours or more for 
the mana to replenish. Sometimes, though, you 
need what you need and don’t have time to wait. 
It’s possible to overharvest a specific area, but it’s 
a desperate and dangerous maneuver. Overhar-
vesting has the very real possibility of tainting the 
area enough to ensure it will never again be able 
to collect enough mana to enable the creation of 
viable reagents. This process also taints the alche-
mist, reducing the quality of any other reagents 
they may gather for the next forty-eight hours by 
one full level (Superior to Base, Base to Subpar, 
and so forth). Talismongers, corporations, and al-
chemists alike have no tolerance for those who 
would permanently destroy valuable resources. 
And chummer, someone is always watching.
To harvest a reagent from an already taxed 
area, make an Alchemy + Magic [Mental] Test. 
You gather one dram for every 4 hits on this test if 
you are in an area suited to your tradition, and one 
dram for every 6 hits if you’re not. Glitching this 
roll results in the area being totally unsuitable for 
reagent harvesting for a full week. A critical glitch 
renders the area permanently dead to the possi-
bility of gathering reagents. 
NEW WAYS 
TO LEVERAGE 
REAGENTS
Reagents have more uses than just as a key com-
ponent for different compounds. The different 
levels of refinement allow for differing and ad-
vanced effects depending on their level of so-
phistication. Below is a list of additional effects 
UPDATED REAGENT COST AND EFFECTS
REAGENT
COST (PER DRAM)
AVAILABILITY
EFFECT
Tainted
20¥
—
Increase time to refine by 100 percent
Inferior
30¥
1
Increase time to refine by 50 percent
Subpar
40¥
4
Increase time to refine by 25 percent
Baseline
50¥
6R
No change
Superior 
60¥
14R
Reduce time to refine by 25 percent
Prime
70¥
20R
Reduce time to refine by 50 percent
Refined
Type x 5
+4
See New Ways to Leverage Reagents (below)
Radical
Type x 25
+8
See New Ways to Leverage Reagents (below)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    187

===== PDF p189 =====
that reagents may be used for beyond those list-
ed in SR5 and Street Grimoire. The total amount of 
bonus effects may not exceed the user’s Magic 
rating. Effects from a Radical reagent are not cu-
mulative with effects from the Refined version of 
that same reagent.
RAW REAGENTS
These reagents are newly harvested or have yet 
to undergo refinement by an alchemist.
•	
Reduce drain by 1 for Ritual Spellcasting tests.
•	
Raise the limit by 1 for any tests using Magic.
•	
Create refined reagents (requires 10 drams to 
be refined into a single dram of refined re-
agent).
REFINED REAGENTS
These reagents have undergone the refinement 
process and have attained a new level of power.
•	
Reduce drain by 2 for tests using skills in 
the Sorcery group.
•	
Reduce drain by 1 for binding.
•	
Raises limit by 5 for all tests using Magic.
•	
Create Magical Compounds (p. 219, Street 
Grimoire).
•	
Create radical reagents (p. 210, Street Gri-
moire) (requires 10 drams to be refined into 
a single dram of radical reagent).
RADICAL REAGENTS
The most powerful version of a reagent, these 
have gone through the refinement process twice 
to reach their maximum potential.
•	
Reduces drain by 2 for tests using skills in the 
Conjuring group.
•	
Reduce drain by 4 for tests using skills in the 
Sorcery group.
•	
Reduce object resistance by 1 per dram.
•	
No Force limit for any tests using Magic 
(though Drain is caluclated as normal).
•	
Reducing Spirit Index (p. 207, Street Grimoire).
•	
Create orichalcum (Requires 10 drams each 
of the required reagents listed as per (p. 210, 
Street Grimoire).
•	
Create fetish (p. 212, Street Grimoire).
•	
Create inanimate vessel (p. 214, Street Gri-
moire).
NEW RARE 
REAGENTS
The reagents detailed in this section are consid-
ered rare and difficult to harvest. They are almost 
universally usable by different traditions and are 
in high demand. Their purity of mana makes them 
desirable, as the smallest amount can go a long 
way. They are also useful in several new com-
pounds that have been invented to make use of 
the qualities inherent in each. Even the lowest 
quality of these are considered superior reagents. 
The danger in their acquisition can be high, but 
there are many who are willing to do far more for 
a few nuyen. 
REAGENT:  
BONE OR HAIR FROM  
A BAOBHAN SITH
Known as the White Women, the baobhan sith 
are fae with deep ties to myth and legend (p. 114, 
Court of Shadows). Some believe they are the pro-
genitors of the first vampires as the source of the 
human metahuman vampiric virus. Others claim 
they are the source of the tales of nymphs and si-
rens that lure men to their deaths with their beau-
ty. The baobhan sith appear as hauntingly beauti-
ful women with the terrifying power to alter their 
very bones into rending talons and razor-sharp 
teeth. These monsters live off humanoid blood 
and inflict a strange euphoria in their victims, cre-
ating an addiction to being their prey. 
Restored access to the Sixth World through the 
metaplanes has freed the baobhan to once more 
hunt the mortal plane. A hunter, however, may 
find themselves prey if they are not careful, as the 
runners in the shadows are no easy meat. Prey 
alone is not the only reason the baobhan have 
returned to the mortal plane of the Sixth World. 
Status within their kind is based upon a meritoc-
racy. Providing the most use to the whole earns 
value. In the course of hunting for sustenance, a 
White Woman may also be seeking to extend her 
personal network of spies and informants or gain 
access to a new and valuable skill that would in-
crease her worth or standing back home.
Once properly refined, the bone or hair from a 
baobhan sith serves as a primary reagent for com-
pounds and preparations that could enhance re-
generation and heal physical wounds, or become 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
188    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p190 =====
a tenacious poison that damages not just the body, 
but also one’s ability to wield magic. 
REAGENT:  
DROP BEAR SALIVA
The mass of jet-black fur and razor sharp teeth 
known as the drop bear (p. 60, Howling Shad-
ows) is a form of Awakened koala. Known car-
riers of HMHVV II, these omnivorous predators 
are currently on the bounty list all over the Out-
back and other areas of Oceania. While they are 
able to survive on their preferred food source of 
eucalyptus, they are ambush predators that are 
always looking for a way to add easy meat to 
their diet. 
Outside of captivity, drop bears are found pri-
marily in the outback of Australia, as well as in 
forested areas of New Guinea. Recently, some 
zoos and corporations have begun importing or 
breeding the beasts, making it possible to find 
them in other areas, though under very difficult 
circumstances due to both the bounty and their 
innate ferocity. Recent discoveries on the al-
chemical uses of their saliva may rectify this situ-
ation swiftly, assuming a synthetic can’t be man-
ufactured first. 
Alchemically, drop bear saliva has become in-
credibly popular. A corporate researcher discov-
ered by accident the ability to refine the saliva and 
create a serum that inhibits the continuing mu-
tation of HMHVV II. While it does not serve as a 
cure, it stops any progress of the virus as long as 
the serum is administered on a weekly basis. This 
serum is not generally known to the public yet, but 
the black market has erupted with the formula for 
the creation of the compound, and many willing 
test subjects have come forward. Other uses for 
this reagent have been explored but are uncon-
firmed at this time. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    189

===== PDF p191 =====
REAGENT: GHOST  
ORCHID PETALS
Ghost orchids are a particularly rare breed of orchid. 
They bloom at night by the light of the moon, and the 
white coloration gives them an otherworldly glow. 
Researchers into these matters agree that the very 
rarity of the flower makes it a natural accumulator of 
mana. When combined with the ambient mana of 
the Sixth World, this allows these delicate flowers to 
take on powerful characteristics when properly pro-
cessed and refined by a skilled alchemist. 
Ghost orchids are most commonly found deep 
within forested areas. They need exposure to direct 
moonlight to bloom, so they are difficult to obtain 
in the first place. There has been some limited suc-
cess in cultivating the flower in greenhouses and 
such, but the ambient mana must be high in order 
for them to develop and thrive. Most commonly 
found in the UCAS areas, their very rarity is part of 
what makes them such a potent reagent. 
When properly refined, ghost orchid petals 
are powerful reagents that are added into com-
pounds and preparations designed to enhance 
vision-based perception. They also may be further 
refined into radical reagents that can allow for in-
creased duration in the astral plane and enhancing 
one’s Charisma. 
REAGENT: GROUND 
KILLDEER ANTLERS
Killdeer (p. 97, Howling Shadows) were original-
ly mutated whitetail deer that now breed true 
as their own unique strain. At first glance, they 
look similar to their original stock. The primary 
differences are the sharpened antler tips for gor-
ing prey and the elongated muzzle that contains 
sharp teeth for rending and tearing meat. These 
hardy creatures are omnivores, though unlike 
their whitetail predecessors, they subsist pri-
marily on meat and supplement with vegetation 
when hunting is poor. 
This species came into being after radiation mu-
tated the whitetail population in and around the 
suburbs of Chicago. From there, they have spread 
to cover entire swathes of the CAS and UCAS, as 
well as parts of the NAN. Their omnivorous nature 
makes them strong survivors in most environments. 
They tend to breed swiftly and are constantly ex-
panding their territory, pushing out the whitetail 
herds that provide an unwitting camouflage. 
Killdeer are sturdy beasts, and alchemists have 
found many ways to distill that nature into various 
compounds. Killdeer antlers in particular are po-
tent aids in healing, regeneration, and toxin-resis-
tance compounds. They may also be used in poi-
sons to sap these very characteristics, weakening 
targets or doing them injury. The rarity of this in-
gredient is reflected by the difficulty of obtaining 
the correct type of antler, which is challenging to 
distinguish from the whitetail, and as such, easily 
counterfeited. 
REAGENT: KAYERI 
MUSHROOM
Deep within the forests of Tír na nÓg dwell a pe-
culiar faerie known as the kayeri (p. 121, Court of 
Shadows). They are guardians and nurturers of the 
forest, along with the plants and animals within 
it. Resembling giant rabbits with extended jaws, 
carnivorous teeth, and mushrooms growing from 
their skulls, the kayeri are fierce protectors of 
their vegetative homes and require any outsiders 
who wish to access their lands to negotiate for 
the privilege. 
There are only two places one may find a kayeri. 
Their natural habitat within the forests of Tír na nÓg 
or select aspected domains of the Sixth World while 
they hunt down those who have desecrated their 
protected charges or one of their kin. The second is 
rather uncommon, as no kayeri wishes to leave its 
charge or community for very long. It takes an act 
of desecration or a desire for revenge to lure these 
protectors from the forests. Once removed, they are 
fiercely devoted to achieving their goal and return-
ing as swiftly as possible back to their home plane.
Kayeri mushrooms, once refined, are potent 
curatives for toxins, poisons, or diseases. Their 
healing properties are some of the most powerful 
available for alchemists to distill due to their in-
herent prime quality. While there is danger during 
the refinement process, the possible benefits that 
come from these curatives has outweighed the 
risk of vengeful rabbit fae descending upon the 
mortal plane. For now. 
NEW EXOTIC 
REAGENTS
The reagents detailed in this section are consid-
ered some of the most dangerous and difficult 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
190    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p192 =====
to acquire. They are powerful items that can be 
used by nearly every known tradition. Due to 
their inherent flexibility, they are highly sought 
after and usually quite expensive. Many of them 
serve as required reagents in some of the more 
powerful or rare compounds and preparations an 
alchemist can learn. Only the most adventurous 
or powerful can harvest these items, as not only 
are they difficult to find but also deadly to claim.
REAGENT: DRAKE SCALES
Drakes (p. 162, Howling Shadows) are powerful 
metahumans, either born as such or possessing 
the latent ability to transform. These creatures are 
the preferred minions of dragons, and most are 
bound to one or another as servants to the mighty 
beasts. They do have other uses however, and not 
merely to themselves. Alchemists and other magi-
cians have found that the different types of drake 
share a unique property. Their bodies are natural 
mana accumulators. This facility with mana makes 
the scales of a drake particularly potent reagents 
when properly harvested and refined. However, 
their sympathetic connection makes few drakes 
willing to part with their scales. 
Wherever you find a dragon, chances are you 
will find at least a few drake servants. This is, how-
ever, an incredibly dangerous way of finding har-
vestable reagents. More common are those who 
manage to identify lairs of unbound drakes or are 
lucky enough to clean up after confrontations. 
Both scenarios offer a somewhat safer avenue to 
harvest the valuable scales. 
Due to the different nature of each species of 
drake, their scales have been put to many varied 
uses once refined. Different traditions find vary-
ing degrees of synergy dependent on the breed 
of drake from which the scales originated. All 
agree they are powerful mana accumulators, and 
as such, their quality is never less than superior. A 
notable exception is that any breed of drake scale 
is useable in the compound formula recently un-
covered to combat the physical damage of drain. 
Predictably, demand for these items has skyrock-
eted in the magical community and black market. 
REAGENT: ORGAN OF 
INSECT SPIRIT HOST
The rise of the bug spirits and their shamans mak-
ing deeper inroads into the Sixth World has not 
been totally without benefit. Alchemists have dis-
covered that the organs of a host of one of these 
spirits can be a powerful reagent in many types of 
compounds and preparations. The otherworldly 
mana within them makes them excellent alchem-
ical agents. Viable even after the death of the 
host, different organs that have been subjected 
to the mana of these spirits take on interesting 
alchemical properties.
Chicago is still considered a hotbed of insect 
spirit activity, making it one of the most likely 
places to obtain an infected host, living or dead. 
The spread of these spirits has made it possible 
to find them in other areas as well. The corrupted 
mana of these spirits seems to linger after death, 
and grave robbing has been on the rise as indus-
trious alchemists follow the age-old adage of 
waste not, want not. 
The most potent use for this reagent is the al-
chemical compound that bonds the spirit and 
body of the astral traveler in such a way as to in-
crease their ability to manifest themselves. Other 
alchemical preparations and formulas that focus 
on travel or communication have also benefited 
by the use of these organs steeped in the mana of 
spirits from another plane. 
REAGENT: VEINS  
OF AN ADEPT
At the core of any type of reagent is its natural 
ability to accumulate and store mana. As such, 
some dark tradition alchemists have begun to ex-
periment with the body parts of those known to 
be a conduit for mana. Thus was born the formula 
that uses the veins of an adept to negate the risk 
of drain. Whether from grave robbing or harvest-
ing from captives, this reagent has tempted even 
the most noble due to the raw power granted 
by the compounds and alchemical mixtures that 
make use of them. 
Adepts may be found all over the Sixth World 
and some other planes that connect to it. Finding 
one already slain, or harvesting the veins from one 
still living, is another matter altogether. The adept 
community finds the rise in demand for their body 
parts for alchemical experimentation abhorrent. 
They actively seek out those who would use such 
things for their own particular brand of revenge. 
This particular reagent is often harvested by 
those of dark traditions, enterprising talismon-
gers who have made quite the tidy profit in selling 
compounds without mentioning the ingredients 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    191

===== PDF p193 =====
they contain. Many care more about the effect 
than where it comes from. There are rumors that if 
the veins of an adept provide such a powerful re-
agent, perhaps other mana-wielding entities may 
have similar benefits, but alchemists are rarely will-
ing to encourage that line of thought. 
ALTERNATIVE USES 
FOR ORICHALCUM
Orichalcum is the professional standard across 
all magical traditions for reagents. This rare ma-
terial appears as an ethereal golden-orange col-
ored metal with the malleability of tin, and it can’t 
exist without the presence of magic. During the 
passage of Halley’s Comet, there were reports of 
orichalcum found by miners, alchemists, and re-
searchers. Since 2061, this phenomenon has nev-
er been repeated. The only reliable means to har-
vest orichalcum is for an alchemist to refine ten 
drams of gold, ten of copper, and ten of cinnabar 
in a laborious process that takes twenty-eight 
days to complete a single dram of orichalcum.
Orichalcum is commonly leveraged to supple-
ment power within a compound or preparation. It 
is universally compatible with any tradition, and as 
such, is ultimately useful for any alchemist or talis-
monger. Alchemists have experimented with this 
potent reagent since the dawn of the Sixth World 
and have uncovered many uses for it.
A single dram of orichalcum may be used to re-
place the need for any other specific reagent for 
a compound or alchemical preparation. Once the 
orichalcum has been created, an alchemist may 
now refine that dram further, to change and aug-
ment the aura to mimic another specific reagent. 
For example, when creating the poison known as 
Lot’s Curse (p. 220, Street Grimoire), a properly pre-
pared dram of orichalcum may be substituted for 
the normally required refined Gomorrah apple. An 
alchemist must have previously sensed the aura to 
be mimicked at least once in order to successfully 
transmute the aura of the orichalcum.
Orichalcum is such a strong conductor of mana 
that it may be used to enhance the effect of prepara-
tions. Any preparation that has a dram of orichalcum 
used within its creation retains full power for Potency 
x 3 hours, instead of the standard Potency x 2, be-
fore it begins to degrade. When used in the creation 
of items (other than compounds and the creation of 
reagents), orichalcum can reduce the object resis-
tance by 4 for any Enchanting test. It can also en-
hance the magnitude of any Sorcery test by increas-
ing the Magic rating by 5. No matter the use, adding 
orichalcum removes any Force limit involved, prov-
ing by this alone its incredible potency and value. 
NEW ALCHEMICAL 
TOOLS 
The lore of alchemy conjures images of bubbling 
beakers and strange apparatus that once facili-
tated failed attempts to recreate magic during 
the Fifth World. Some of these tools have been 
THE PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
Rumor, lore, and conspiracy theorists insist that there’s an 
alternative method of harvesting orichalcum. Behind closed 
doors, they speculate that this is the true meaning of what 
was known as the Philosopher’s Stone. The oft-told tales of 
turning lead into gold were merely allegory of harvesting the 
true “gold” of all reagents—orichalcum. None have been 
willing or able to confirm its existence directly, but legend 
holds a talented alchemist can discern the scent of the refined 
orichalcum via the Philosopher’s Stone. Some say that the 
material somehow feels like pure mana. Others say it smells of 
roses. Ancient stories also say that the Philosopher’s Stone is 
not found but made with exotic reagents and formula lost to the 
ages. Whether it is a secret rediscovered from the annals of 
the ancient past or an artifact recovered from some unknown 
tomb, none can be truly sure.
The legendary Philosopher’s Stone grants the possessor 
virtually unlimited access to orichalcum by reducing the time and 
materials necessary to refine a dram. It is said that instead of ten 
of each ingredient as in the normal refinement of orichalcum, 
only a single dram of each is needed. If true, an alchemist could 
create ten times the normal amount of orichalcum in a single 
session. Unlimited riches for the lucky possessor, assuming they 
could remain in possession of such an artifact long enough to 
make their fortune. If such an artifact exists, it remains a closely 
guarded secret by necessity, as there’s not an alchemist in the 
world who wouldn’t kill to possess it.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
192    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p194 =====
reinvented and repurposed in the Sixth World to 
help push the boundaries of alchemy. While the 
list below is not exhaustive, as additional tools 
are developed every day, several stand out in the 
field. Corporations and runners alike continue to 
develop any advantage they can to facilitate not 
just profit, but survival, within the Sixth World. 
ATOMIZER
Developed during the early resurgence of alchemy 
as a practice, the atomizer is more a delivery device 
than it is an actual tool. The key to this device lies 
in its ability to take solid or liquid compounds and 
break them down into an aerosol spray without any 
loss in power or effect. This enables both healing 
and poison effects that would normally be com-
mand triggered to be created as contact triggers 
while retaining efficacy. The nature of the atomizer 
itself keeps contact with the device from activat-
ing the contact trigger. This enables the atomizer 
to spray out its payload which will then activate 
upon contact. Rumors exist about atomizers that 
may hold more than one compound “cartridge” at 
a time, though none can verify the truth of them. 
Effect: One compound may be converted from 
a solid or liquid into an aerosol when inserted into 
the atomizer. Compounds made with a contact 
trigger are not enacted until they contact a sub-
stance after being fired from the atomizer. Atom-
izers can be used to make a ranged attack with a 
maximum range of three meters. 
Price: 500 nuyen for the atomizer itself, 5 nuy-
en for an empty cartridge
ALEMBIC
The original distillery, the term “alembic” en-
compasses all three pieces required for the dis-
tilling process. Alchemists may use this device 
to increase the potency of the product their re-
agents produce. By distilling down to the im-
portant essence, more refined reagents are pro-
duced during the process from the same original 
amount of base ingredient. As such, the standard 
ten drams of reagent will produce two drams of 
refined, instead of one. The same process applies 
to further enhancement of refined reagents into 
radicals at the same ratio. 
Effect: Using an alembic during the refinement 
process doubles the amount of refined or radical 
reagents created. 
Price: 3,000 nuyen
ATHANOR
An athanor is a furnace used in the alchemical re-
finement process. It provides a constant rate of 
heat vital to the successful creation of refined and 
radical reagents. New technologies have allowed 
for the perfection of this device, a rare case where 
technology benefits the magical rather than hin-
ders it. An athanor provides a strong and consis-
tent flame that requires little maintenance. This 
allows an alchemist to spend more time on other 
projects without having to constantly attend to 
other reagents they are refining. 
Effect: An athanor grants the alchemist leeway 
in the refinement and circulation process. During 
the refinement process of standard reagents, an 
alchemist may step away for up to one hour during 
the ten-hour process without ill effect. When un-
dergoing the month-long process of creating 
orichalcum, an alchemist may check on the refine-
ment process once every twelve hours, instead of 
every ten. 
Price: 1,000 nuyen
CRUCIBLE
No matter how careful the alchemist, there are 
times when reagents become corrupted, or when 
the reagents are lower quality than desired. The 
crucible was reintroduced to alchemy to combat 
this effect. Careful use of this device can allow an 
alchemist to steam away the impurities found in 
some reagents and increase their potency. There 
are limits of course, and a crucible can’t be ex-
pected to perform miracles. It can, however, al-
low a canny talismonger who is willing to take 
the time and effort to vastly increase their profit 
margin. By buying less desirable reagents and re-
fining them with a crucible, they can scrape every 
nuyen possible out of a sale. 
Effect: By using a crucible, an alchemist may 
upgrade the quality of a reagent one step. This 
takes the same amount of time as a standard re-
finement cycle of ten hours. A reagent may be 
upgraded from superior to prime in this manner, 
but it may not be enhanced any further than prime 
quality. 
Price: 500 nuyen
VAULT OF AGES
The “vault of ages” is the most common name 
for this relatively recent innovation. Taken from 
the habit of secretive alchemists who hide their 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    193

===== PDF p195 =====
formulas and creations in secret vaults covered 
in traps, the preservative nature of this item 
gives it the name. First invented by a talismonger 
skilled in alchemy, the vault of ages helps miti-
gate the greatest flaw in crafted items. From the 
moment of creation, alchemical compounds and 
preparations begin to degrade. Dependent on 
the strength of the creator, they can quickly be-
come useless if too much time passes, becoming 
a massive waste of resources and time. The vault 
stabilizes alchemical creations, halting the degra-
dation process for the duration of time it remains 
within the vault. 
Effect: A vault of ages may store a number of 
alchemical compounds or preparations equal to 
twice the Magic rating of its creator. The Rating of 
these items cannot be more than twice the rating 
of the vault. While within the confines of the vault, 
these items do not degrade. The degradation 
clock starts ticking as soon as they are removed. 
Price: 2,000 nuyen per Magic Rating to a 
max of 5
NEW COMPOUNDS 
Alchemy is a constantly evolving field of mysti-
cal study as practitioners, from solo magicians 
to teams of corporate researchers, experiment 
and explore new uses for reagents. Their ultimate 
goal is to discover new compounds that will make 
them rich, famous, and/or powerful. Many who 
make such a discovery hoard their knowledge 
to corner the market and maximize their profits. 
There are also those who seek to reverse-engi-
neer the newest fad, analyzing a compound and 
taking it apart to find how it was made. Whether it 
is undercutting a rival or finding new and cheaper 
ways to produce the compound, any talismonger 
worth their salt always has their ear to the ground 
for the newest creation. 
Persistent runners can find talismongers willing 
to sell some of these compounds, but it’s neither 
easy nor cheap—due to the time it takes to cre-
ate them versus the time they last before potency 
runs out, these compounds are not exactly sitting 
on store shelves. Still, runners are known for hav-
ing contacts who might have unlikely items, and 
sometimes a talismonger friend might just have 
the item on hand that can provide important assis-
tance to a runner team.
The lack of a standard market for these items 
leads to a lack of standard pricing. Still, there is a 
baseline to consider, and it looks like this: [(Force 
of spell involved) + (Current Potency)] x 500¥. 
Another factor that might raise the price is wheth-
er there is a current scarcity of required reagents 
(either globally or locally). Base availability for 
all compounds is 14R. Creating alchemical com-
pounds requires advanced alchemy metamagic 
(p. 153, Street Grimoire).
ALCHEMICAL DUCT TAPE
Few things have endeared alchemists to riggers 
and deckers more than the creation of this com-
pound. While on a run, there is never enough 
time to repair a damaged vehicle or drone to per-
fection. Sometimes you just need to get it work-
ing and get moving. That’s where alchemical duct 
tape comes in. By slapping this on and activating 
the compound, complex repairs can be achieved 
in an instant. Use of this compound is the only 
magical repair possible, after which more mun-
dane efforts are required to fix the machine.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, this compound 
magically repairs a non-living target. Each 
hit upon activation repairs one point of 
structure or one box of damage, as per the 
spell Fix (p. 116, Street Grimoire).
•	
Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined mallard fat
ASTRAL INCREASE 
The limits on a magician’s ability to manifest 
can seriously threaten the success of a run. Al-
chemists have finally created a solution for this 
problem thanks to the rediscovery of the ghost 
orchid. These ethereal flower petals enhance the 
magician within the astral plane. The careful and 
ALCHEMICAL TOOLS
ITEM
COST
AVAILABILITY
Atomizer
500¥
4
     Cartridge
5¥
2
Athanor
1,000¥
4
Crucible
500
2
Vault of ages
2,000 x Rating
(Rating +4)R
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
194    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p196 =====
repeated refinement imbues the user with that 
dual nature, enhancing their physical and ethe-
real nature at the same time. Ghost orchids are 
incredibly difficult to cultivate outside of the wild. 
Doing so requires a level of care and concern that 
few are willing to put forth. Ghost orchids are 
most potent when harvested under the light of a 
full moon, especially in spots where the light may 
reach the petals unimpeded. 
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: Once ingested, this compound dou-
bles the amount of time a magician may re-
main manifested while in astral projection.
•	
Aftereffect: Winded side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Radical ghost orchid 
petals.
ASTRAL BOND
Normally the bond between body and soul is not 
strong enough to invoke other prepared items in 
the alchemist arsenal. This compound resolves 
that issue, reinforcing that bond and allowing 
mana to flow to the prepared items. This com-
pound mystically encases that elusive connect-
ing silver cord in steel, conveying a stronger bond 
between body and soul while inhibiting neither. 
While under the effect of this compound, many 
users have spoken of the ease of travel and re-
sponse while astral, almost as if their body itself 
was there instead of just their soul. 
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: While this compound lasts, the 
bond between body and astral form is 
much stronger. While manifesting, the tar-
get may activate command triggers. 
•	
Aftereffect: Can’t Speak side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined organ from in-
sect host.
BAOBHAN’S TEARS
The worst nightmare of many a magician, bao-
bhan’s tears is a contact poison that deals dam-
age to the body as well as to the ability to shape 
mana. While this compound does not share the 
addictive qualities of the real kiss, the blend of 
euphoria remains, even while at odds with the 
damage it inflicts on the body. 
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: Upon contact with the skin or in-
halation, this poison deals 4P damage that 
may only be resisted by Body. If any dam-
age is not resisted, the target also loses 1 
point of Essence for the next twenty-four 
hours. Repeated doses of this poison may 
inflict damage, but only 1 point of Essence 
may be lost during the twenty-four-hour 
period after initial infection.
•	
Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined tears of a bao-
bhan sith (p. 114, Court of Shadows)
DRAIN AWAY
Holding the ability to lower the damage caused 
by drain, this compound has become one of the 
most feared in the arsenal of dark aspect magi-
cians. It can only be made with the mana-fueled 
veins of an adept, and producing this compound 
pushes past lines even most shadowrunners will 
not cross. Countless adepts perished before the 
formula was perfected. Now it spreads deep 
within the shadows for those willing to pay the 
price for power. Dark traditions and insect sha-
mans are known to carry a dose as a trump card 
few could expect.
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: Once imbibed, the next time the 
target would take physical damage from 
drain, that damage is negated.
•	
Aftereffect: Nauseated side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined veins of the 
adept
DULLED EDGES 
When damage is inevitable, reducing the target’s 
ability to inflict damage itself is a cunning tool. 
This poison dulls the edges of the target, lower-
ing their reaction times, weakening their muscles, 
and sapping their strength. Even the mightiest 
street samurai fears the moment when their body 
is turned against them. 
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: Once it contacts a target, this com-
pound decreases the target’s Physical limit 
by 2 for 3 turns. 
•	
Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Radical killdeer antler 
(p. 97, Howling Shadows)
FEEL NO PAIN
Known as FNP on the streets, feel no pain delays 
the need for sleep, food, or even water. While it 
doesn’t eliminate these urges, it can delay them 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    195

===== PDF p197 =====
until the user is in a better place to handle these 
basic needs. Quite popular among corp workers 
who are closing in on a project deadline, since 
nothing gets you through it faster than a bit of 
FNP. There are very real dangers when it comes to 
this alchemical compound. More than three days 
of consecutive use of FNP brings risks of addic-
tion as well as fatigue and disorientation (Addic-
tion Rating 4, Addiction Threshold 2; see p. 172, 
409, and 414, SR5).
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, every net hit counts 
as one hour of sleep for the purposes of 
resisting fatigue. It also allows a target to 
skip one meal per net hit with no ill effects. 
When the duration of FNP ends, the effects 
of dehydration and starvation immediately 
apply to the subject. 
•	
Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Radical kayeri mush-
room
FORCE OF PERSONALITY
For those who heavily engage in combat in the 
astral plane, this compound is a godsend. Alche-
mists have developed a gel that enhances the abil-
ity of a magician or adept to deal damage to astral 
creatures and constructs alike. The compound can 
also be helpful to non-magicians who wish to dis-
play enhanced levels of charisma and charm. Few 
are willing to endure the side effects without sub-
stantial reason, due to the risks it entails.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: This compound must be applied to 
the target’s skin and then activated. While 
active, the target’s Charisma is increased 
by 2 for the purposes of astral combat 
only. Such an artificial increase manifest-
ing on the astral plane requires a potent 
ability, and comes with an equally debili-
tating side effect.
•	
Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Radical ghost orchid 
petals
HMHVV II INHIBITOR 
Developed in secret by the Aztechnology Al-
chemy division, this compound is only sold and 
then administered to approved and vetted elite 
corporate citizens who sign a specialized NDA 
to prevent rogue alchemists from attempting to 
reverse-engineer it. A new and rare inoculation, 
this magical compound prevents further progress 
of HMHVV II as long as the compound is contin-
ually ingested. 
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: This compound must be con-
sumed once every seven days. As long 
as the regimen is maintained, all progress 
of HMHVV II is halted. This is not a cure, 
merely an inhibitor. Failure to continue 
dosing will allow the virus to progress 
once more, often more virulent than be-
fore due to the repression. There is also 
a possibility of addiction when using the 
inhibitor; it has Addiction Rating 3, Ad-
diction Threshold 1.
•	
Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined drop bear sali-
va (p. 60, Howling Shadows)
LAMINATE 
Many traditions use writings or symbols painted 
or drawn upon an item for their alchemical prepa-
rations. These markings are susceptible to dam-
age or accident, rendering the time and energy 
spent on them wasted. Recently, the infamous 
alchemist Megalith released this compound to 
spite the Aztechnology Alchemical division.
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: An aerosol spray that when applied 
coats a layer of writing or runes in a thin 
protective gel. Unable to stand up to any 
real damage, (1 point of Physical damage 
destroys the layer) it will protect from ac-
cidental scuffing or blurring through in-
advertent contact. For example, a sword 
with runes drawn upon the blade may be 
sheathed and unsheathed without damag-
ing the inked writing. 
•	
Aftereffect: Blinded (One Eye) side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined slug glands
PERFECT SIGHT
Perfect sight has hit the streets, and for the first 
time non-magicians have an inkling of what it’s 
like to see the astral plane. Some use this just as a 
recreational drug, seeing sights they never imag-
ined could exist from the comfort of their own 
homes. Enterprising runners and corporations 
have also made use of this compound. Guards 
can detect the dual-natured, or even warn their 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
196    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p198 =====
superiors about astral beings attempting to ac-
cess secure locations. Runners can keep an eye 
on their astral counterparts without requiring 
them to waste time manifesting. This increased 
bond to the astral does come at a cost however, 
as use of this increases the noise (p. 441, SR5) in 
the local area.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When applied to the eyes and 
commanded to activate, this compound 
allows the target to perceive the astral 
plane. Throughout the duration of this 
compound, the ambient noise in an area 
is increased by the net hits achieved when 
activated as per the spell Interference (p. 
117, Street Grimoire)
•	
Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined ghost orchid 
petals
SHARPSHOOTER
One shot, one kill. The motto of the sniper, and 
harder to accomplish in this age of advanced 
magical and mundane protection. This com-
pound returns some of that danger and abili-
ty to the sniper by removing the pesky im-
pediments of range or perception. A cunning 
alchemist has managed to combine the spells 
of Hawkeye and Enhance Aim into one easy-
to-use compound. Even the most experienced 
sniper or gunslinger likes to have a little Sharp-
shooter on hand to ensure they don’t miss when 
they take aim. 
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: Applied to the eyes or in a quickly 
digestible pill, Sharpshooter improves the 
target’s aim as well as negating range mod-
ifiers in increasing increments. For each net 
hit, reduce Range conditions by one cate-
gory (p. 175, SR5). It also grants a +1 dice 
pool modifier for any visual-based percep-
tion tests. 
•	
Aftereffect: Blinded (one eye)
•	
Required Reagent: Radical eyes of a bird 
of prey.
UNSTOPPABLE VIGOR
Another powerful tool in the arsenal of the ma-
gician, this compound makes even the frailest 
mana worker more likely to survive extended 
spellcasting. Far more than the blades or bul-
lets of enemies, drain itself becomes an unwary 
spellcaster’s greatest foe. This compound forc-
es an unnatural stamina to suffuse the body of a 
magician in order to combat the physical dam-
age that drain may inflict. It is a double-edged 
sword, as this increased hardiness can convince 
some to cast spells far beyond their power un-
til they become addicted to it (the compound 
has Addiction Rating 6, Addiction Threshold 
3). This forces them to continue consuming the 
compound to survive the repeated damage of 
drain.
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: Once imbibed, the target gains a 
number of boxes on their Stun Condition 
Monitor equal to the potency of the com-
pound. These boxes are only useful for re-
sisting the damage associated with drain. 
Once the potency expires or the boxes are 
full from drain damage, they disappear and 
the effect ends.
•	
Aftereffect: Slowed side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined drake scales 
(any type)
WATER BREATHING 
There are those who refuse to let such a minor 
setback as being underwater stop them in their 
quest for hidden riches. Use of this compound 
magically imbues the user with gills, allowing 
them to breath easily underwater. This is not 
some mystical conversion, but rather true gills, 
which can be problematic to the inexperienced 
user. While this compound remains in effect, the 
user cannot breathe air alone; they must take 
their oxygen from the water. As such, the truly in-
novative have taken advantage of this fact, apply-
ing the compound to a target and then watching 
their victim suffocate before them.
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: The target is empowered with the 
Gills critter power (p. 192, Howling Shad-
ows). While this compound is active, the 
target has real working gills and may only 
breathe underwater. Canceling this effect 
removes them and returns the ability to 
breathe air.
•	
Aftereffect: Winded side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined salmon scales
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    197

===== PDF p199 =====
NEW ALCHEMICAL 
PREPARATIONS
Alchemical preparations are spells that rely on 
a physical conduit, called the lynchpin, to chan-
nel mana from the astral to the physical realm to 
activate them. Lynchpins are the weak spot in 
any alchemical preparation, as even the slightest 
damage to them will render the entire prepara-
tion inoperable. They can take many forms, from 
arcane writing on paper to the severed hand of 
a murderer mystically imbued with power. Tradi-
tion and imagination are the limit when it comes 
to alchemically preparing a vessel for a spell. 
Rules for purchasing preparations follows the 
same outline as buying compounds (p. 194), name-
ly that they are hard to find—in fact, even more so 
because of the shorter lifespan. The base price is 
[(Force of spell involved) + (Current Potency)] x 
500¥. Base availability for all preparations is 14R.
ABANDON ALL HOPE
Another popular trap and defensive preparation, this 
preparation increases an aura of fear and helpless-
ness in the entire area when activated. By setting this 
up in an area where other traps are located, it be-
comes much easier to deter any who seek to beard 
the alchemist in their lair. This preparation is often 
set upon something of value left easily found. As the 
magic is undetectable until activated, once a would-
be thief touches the item, the fear aura ignites.
•	
Trigger: Contact 
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Foreboding spell upon the area. 
•	
Required Spell: Foreboding (p. 112, Street 
Grimoire)
BARRICADE
A few seconds can seem a lifetime, or make all 
the difference in the world. Upon activating this 
preparation, the structural integrity of a wall or 
door can be increased. Traditional-minded alche-
mists use runes written on paper, which is then 
applied to the target. Other, more innovative 
methods, such as a penny in the door seam, can 
work just as well when properly prepared.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: Upon activation, the spell Reinforce 
is cast on the object the preparation has 
been applied to. 
•	
Required Spell: Reinforce (p. 118, Street 
Grimoire)
BURN, BABY, BURN
Triple B is one of the most versatile trap-style 
preparations and can take many forms. A room 
filled with flammable gas, with a hidden rune 
upon the floor that ignites the entire room in 
flames. A grenade of flammable liquid, with a 
command rune inscribed upon it. There are myr-
iad ways to capitalize on something igniting in 
flames on command.
•	
Trigger: Command 
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Ignite spell upon the target. 
•	
Required Spell: Ignite (p. 293, SR5)
DO YOUR BEST
Unleashing the limits of body or mind can make 
the difference in any battle. This preparation al-
lows an alchemist to raise the effectiveness of 
herself and others. While this isn’t a guaranteed 
win, it greatly increases the chance of success in 
whatever endeavors a runner might undertake. 
Coated pills are a common form for this prepara-
tion, and when the command word is spoken the 
spell activates. 
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Increase Inherent Limits spell 
upon the target. Only one limit may be in-
creased at one time, and further activation 
of this eliminates the previous version. 
•	
Required Spell: Increase Inherent Limits 
(p. 110, Street Grimoire)
GET AWAY FROM MY RIDE
A getaway vehicle is nothing if it can’t help run-
ners escape. It’s a weakness in any plan, and as 
such, alchemists have devised a way to protect 
that key element of any good escape. Emblems 
and decals are popular forms for these prepara-
tions to make them blend in with the vehicle and 
hide their magical nature until it is too late.	
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Protect Vehicle spell upon the 
target vehicle.
•	
Required Spell: Protect Vehicle (p. 117, 
Street Grimoire)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
198    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p200 =====
HIGH AS A KITE
It’s not always about solving the problem yourself. 
Some of the most powerful preparations are ones 
that set up the rest of the team to succeed. The use 
of this preparation lowers the target’s ability to resist 
toxins and drugs. This can set up other teammates to 
deliver devastating attacks. This is most commonly 
prepared on projectiles for easy delivery.
•	
Trigger: Command 
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Enabler spell. 
•	
Required Spell: Enabler (p. 110, Street Gri-
moire)
NOISE ON THE LINE
Deckers, riggers, and other skilled Matrix users 
can present a unique problem for magicians. To 
prevent such issues before they can arise, this 
preparation increases the noise in the area, mak-
ing the Matrix more difficult to use and access. 
Few things are more likely to incite the hacker 
population than frequent use of this compound. 
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, enacts the Increase 
Noise spell. 
•	
Required Spell: Increase Noise (p. 116, 
Street Grimoire)
NOMW (NOT ON MY WATCH)
Sometimes the difference between living and dying 
is so razor thin, even a spell will not be fast enough. 
For this reason, alchemists created a contact prepa-
ration to stabilize critically wounded individuals just 
long enough to get them the help they need.	
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: When contact is made, the spell 
Stabilize (p. 289, SR5) is enacted upon the 
target. 
•	
Required Spell: Stabilize
LIGHTNING BLADE 
Even with ceramics, plastics, and mystical armor, 
there are those who place their faith in a layer of 
metal between them and those who would do 
them harm. Alchemists have perfected a prepara-
tion to remind them of the error of their ways. By 
imbuing a weapon with the power of lightning, the 
protection of metal armor becomes nullified and 
the damage becomes resistible by the body alone.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: Written upon a blade or other weap-
on, when activated this preparation makes 
the next successful attack unable to be re-
sisted by metal armor. 
•	
Required Spell: Lightning Bolt (p. 284, SR5)
•	
SPIRIT ZAPPER
Spirits can serve as weapons both offensive and 
defensive, as well as the ultimate spies. This 
preparation is important for any magician wish-
ing to guard their secrets against spirits trespass-
ing on their astral domain.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: This preparation comes in many 
forms, from candles made of exotic materi-
als to runes and diagrams written out in dif-
ferent forms and languages. No matter the 
actual form, the effect remains. When acti-
vated, it creates a barrier just as the Mana 
Barrier spell, or the Offensive Mana Barrier 
spell, depending on the preparation. 
•	
Required Spell: Mana Barrier (p. 294, SR5) or 
Offensive Mana Barrier (p. 117, Street Grimoire)
STINK BOMB
A trap to disable a would-be thief with gut-wrench-
ing sickness, a tool to incapacitate enemies chas-
ing a runner down a darkened alley … there are 
myriad uses for the stink bomb, limited only by 
the cleverness of the user.
•	
Trigger: Command or Contact, depending 
on use
•	
Effect: On command or contact, dependent 
on the trigger chosen, the Stench spell is en-
acted over the area, affecting enemies and 
allies alike. 
•	
Required Spell: Stench (p. 113, Street Grimoire)
STOP THIEF!
Quick to produce and relatively inexpensive, these 
preparations are incredibly popular with talismon-
gers as both a deterrent as well as a demonstration. 
This preparation can be done on anything from a 
welcome mat with hidden writing to a throwable 
ball that bonds to whatever it touches when the 
command word is spoken. Stopping thieves in their 
tracks or marking them for later identification are 
common uses, though tagging people with an RFID 
that can be used for tracking or drone targeting are 
other possible options.
•	
Trigger: Command
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    199

===== PDF p201 =====
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Glue Strip spell. 
•	
Required Spell: Glue Strip (p. 116, Street 
Grimoire)
TRUTH SERUM
When you absolutely must get to the truth, noth-
ing can beat this type of preparation. While it may 
require other types of coercion to get the target 
to actually speak, with this you can be assured 
whatever words come out of their mouth are 
the truth. Handcuffs and manacles are the most 
common forms of preparation, as they are easily 
locked on and activated. Some prefer to put this 
in pill form, just for the drama of making some-
one swallow a truth drug.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation en-
acts the Compel Truth spell upon the target. 
•	
Required Spell: Compel Truth (p. 114, Street 
Grimoire)
UP AND AT ’EM
It is always easier to help a comrade run than 
it is to haul an unconscious body. These occa-
sions are what this preparation is designed for. 
A quick slap of a patch and the command word, 
and even the most stunned individual will regain 
consciousness. If nothing else, they can then be 
awake to see any further attacks coming.  	
•	
Trigger: Most commonly Command or 
Contact
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Awaken spell upon the target. 
•	
Required Spell: Awaken (p. 109, Street 
Grimoire)
WATCH YOUR STEP
Inventive users can find plenty of uses for a sud-
den sheet of ice. From sending vehicles chasing 
them crashing into the streets to rendering ene-
mies too worried about their footing to try to do 
anything else, the possibilities are endless.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Ice Sheet spell on the area. 
•	
Required Spell: Ice Sheet (p. 293, SR5)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
200    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p202 =====
THE SYNERGY OF 
ALCHEMY AND 
DARK TRADITIONS
>	
If you can manage to look away from the cool explosions, 
you’ll find that ultimately, alchemy is about methodology 
and preparation. If you can figure out how to reproduce 
results while cutting corners on the means of production, 
you have the edge. Some alchemists are willing to dive 
head first into the shadows of the dark traditions for any 
advantage. Those who practice such traditions aren’t 
the talkative type, and most aren’t willing to share their 
secrets at any price lest they be incriminated. So treat the 
information here as the rare and precious jewel it is.
>	
Megalith
Practitioners of the dark traditions gravitate 
toward alchemy, attracted to its dispassionate, re-
sults-orientated methodology of gaining power. 
They leverage the unique capabilities of alchemi-
cal tools and reagents to fuel their unending quests 
for power without the shackles of morality. In their 
pursuit of an exotic reagent or unknown formula, a 
dark alchemist will plunder a sacred burial ground, 
murder a kayeri for their cap, or even harvest the 
veins from a living adept via vivisection. These re-
pulsive experiments have secretly led to some of 
the newest formulas and potent compounds and 
preparations that even the most law-abiding find 
indispensable. 
BLOOD MAGIC
Alchemists who practice this dark tradition must 
surrender their squeamishness to forever walk in 
the shadows, surrendering completely to their am-
bition and hunger for power. Blood magicians har-
vest reagents through seduction, temptation, and 
sacrifice, making the conscious decision to trade 
the suffering of others for power and prestige. 
The great advantage of the dark alchemist le-
veraging blood magic is that reagents harvested 
from time-consuming sacrifice work as a perfect 
substitute for orichalcum (see Reagents, p. 316, 
SR5). This blood reagent must be utilized immedi-
ately, lest it forever lose its potency. However, the 
nature of such a harvesting requires the dark al-
chemist spend three times the normal duration to 
prepare the sacrifice, requiring sacred alchemical 
compounds such as poisons and paralytics to en-
sure the suffering and ultimate death of their vic-
tims. Practitioners of this tradition who combine it 
with alchemy also learn to combine their efforts 
into a gruesome whole. They may create any com-
pound or preparation to trigger at the moment of 
death, either of themselves or one of their victims. 
Blood magicians first discovered the infamous 
reagent known as veins of the adept (see p. 191), 
which is the core reagent required for a powerful 
alchemical compound with the ability to com-
pletely negate drain damage. Rumor has it that the 
unknown alchemist who discovered this reagent 
willingly shared their secret with the world to fuel 
an unending vendetta against adepts for some 
grave slight.
Sacrifices may be shared among blood magi-
cians without the dilution of the potency of the 
harvested reagent. A blood magician often pairs 
with a couple of apprentices and cultists who 
serve as additional allies—or in desperate times, 
as power sources. Together, they perform mul-
tiple sacrifices within an area to taint the mana 
with pain and suffering in order to synergize the 
reagents to their tradition. This takes repeated 
sacrifices and torture to accomplish, but few who 
are so far down the path of blood magic will flinch 
at such a minor requirement. They find synergy in 
any reagents that were once part of living, feeling 
beings. While they’d prefer to do the bloodletting 
and harvesting themselves, they will make use of 
what comes available. Areas of past pain and suf-
fering are the preferred places for harvesting re-
agents for a blood magician.
INSECT MAGIC
Followers of the Insect Way have a single, 
all-important goal: to seek a place with high am-
bient mana, fortify it, and then summon a queen 
to create a hive. To achieve this end, insect sha-
mans infect metahuman host bodies with lesser 
insect spirits. These infected hosts aid the shaman 
in progressing the goals of the hive, serving as de-
fenders, workers, and minions of the shaman who 
summoned them until their queen arrives. 
An alchemist who follows the Insect Way pos-
sesses an innate spiritual connection to the other-
worldly mana infused within the body of an infect-
ed host. They may leverage this to quickly harvest 
reagents from the organs of any infected host. This 
process kills the host, but the harvesting process 
takes half the normal time. The ease of harvest-
ing this key component allows insect shamans to 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    201

===== PDF p203 =====
make great use of such abilities when hunting for 
other host bodies or defending the hive location 
itself. These alchemists have also been taught the 
secrets of poisons and toxins from their insect 
mentor spirits. They are able to mix this mana with 
their own biology to turn their very blood into a 
potent toxin. 
Insect shamans rarely venture far from their 
hive; they remain close to keep it safe and pro-
tect it from predators. They keep a close eye on 
their infected hosts to ensure the population small 
enough to stay hidden, but large enough that they 
may harvest reagents at a moment’s notice. The 
greatest advantage an insect shaman can have is 
time. The longer their presence goes unknown, the 
more powerful servants they can summon, and 
the more host bodies they can infect. When this 
leads to the successful summoning of a queen, 
there is even the potential of a potent spirit pact 
that can boost the power of an insect shaman to 
even greater levels. 
The harvested organs of an infected host can 
be refined into a compound that allows an astral 
shaman to manifest strongly enough to activate 
other prepared alchemical traps. Due to the om-
nipresent nature of insects within their home terri-
tories, the mentor spirits of an insect shaman can 
grant knowledge of any area heavily ambient in 
mana within that sphere of influence. This again 
cuts down the time it takes a follower of the Insect 
Way to harvest reagents that are already assured 
to be synergetic with their tradition. 
TOXIC MAGIC
Followers of the Twisted Way gain strength and 
power from the pollution and corruption of the 
Sixth World. These toxic mages seek to expand 
the areas ravaged by corruption through their 
own power, as well as by aiding those who ini-
tially created the damage. Poisoners believe they 
have discovered an unknown element of mana 
and that by spreading this pollution they increase 
their own power. Avengers merely lash out at 
the world, damaging friend and foe alike, in an 
all-consuming hatred spawned by the very envi-
ronment that sustains them. 
Toxic alchemists gain power from the taint-
ed mana that flows through polluted areas, and 
their reagents reflect this benefit. They do not 
suffer the normal disadvantage for using tainted 
reagents, but instead gain a fifty percent cut to re-
fining time when using them. When using tainted 
reagents, they increase the limit on any toxin- or 
poison-based alchemical compound or prepara-
tion by 1. These vile and twisted creations further 
spread the pollution and corruption for which the 
toxic practitioner is known. Those who combine 
alchemy with toxicity also find a secondary ben-
efit unknown to any but those practitioners: They 
become immune to death by disease. They suffer 
the side effects and remain infected for the dura-
tion, but the disease itself will never kill them. The 
corruption they live in maintains their life on the 
razor’s edge. 
Combining alchemy with the insanity of a 
toxic magician is akin to giving a child a gre-
nade. They are unflinching in pushing alchemi-
cal compounds and preparations far beyond any 
sane boundaries in their quest to expand areas 
of corruption. Free from the shackles of morali-
ty or ethics, they can develop everything from 
deadly poisons to plagues that ravage any eco-
system they find vulnerable. What is truly terri-
fying is that recent encounters with toxic magi-
cians have all seen them interested in virus-like 
plagues. Imagining a toxic magician able to per-
vert a virus like HMHVV to their own ends is tru-
ly the stuff of nightmares.
Areas ravaged by pollution are natural hab-
itats of the Twisted Way followers. There they 
make their lairs, or scour the land for reagents 
to use in their insane schemes. These areas are 
also convenient locations to test and further 
develop compounds and preparations, as even 
failures will increase the ambient toxicity which 
empowers the Toxic magician. Tainting these ar-
eas further also leads to increased mana levels, 
which make for a richer harvest when gathering 
reagents. 
INSECT SHAMAN VENOM
•	 Vector: Contact
•	 Speed: Immediate
•	 Penetration: 0
•	 Power: Equal to alchemist’s Magic rating
•	 Effect: Physical damage.
•	 Insect shaman venom is a toxic blood that burns upon 
contact with unprotected flesh. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
202    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p204 =====
RESEARCH, RUMORS, 
AND LEGENDS
>	
I spend most of my life looking over my shoulder. I thought 
the horrible things I learned at Aztechnology would be 
enough to fuel all my nightmares. You keep running and 
running, and eventually you see the whole of the world, 
and you wish you could be naïve again. Lately, I’ve been 
taking notes of rumors and various jobs that might need 
an alchemist’s touch. I might not live to see tomorrow, 
but maybe my formulas will live on. I left these secrets in 
care of a friend, just in case I become retired quietly in the 
shadows. A little knowledge is a dangerous thing. Don’t 
let this material get you into a place you can’t talk or fight 
your way out of.
>	
Megalith
PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
>	
Research alchemy long enough, and you’ll have a slew 
of tales of old bastards going mad trying to locate or 
recreate the Philosopher’s Stone. I spent a year and a 
half trying to crack that at Aztechnology. The corporate 
spooks would bring us rumors about someone making 
an advancement that looked promising. No one really 
believed it existed, but they really didn’t want the 
competition to prove us wrong. It wasn’t much different 
than the old days, really. You’d have academics keeping 
loose correspondence, confident that someone was 
about to figure it out and hoping it was going to be 
them. Not much different than your grandmother at a 
bingo hall, really. Eventually, I realized that being the 
first to shout bingo might not be the best idea. I’ve never 
regretted it. Best leave the amateurs to their game. 
>	
Megalith
Rumors about the Philosopher’s Stone have 
always intrigued and inspired those interested 
in mystic items. Alchemists who could turn lead 
into gold, guaranteeing unlimited wealth and the 
power that comes with it to whomever could 
possess this artifact. These stories rise and fall 
throughout the ages, and the cynical consider 
them just faerie tales. As the heightened activi-
ty of the fae has shown, sometimes faerie tales 
are more real than anyone could have imagined. 
Once more, the Philosopher’s Stone has become 
the talk of the magical world. From corporations 
to runners, everyone wants to know if the rumors 
are true, and if they are how they can get their 
piece of the action.
There are a couple persistent rumors that 
float around about the whereabouts of this leg-
endary material. The first belief is that it is an 
object belonging more to the fae than to the 
material plane. With the rise in interaction with 
the Seelie Court and the other denizens of Tír na 
nÓg, speculation is high that the Philosopher’s 
Stone may be a faerie artifact that is secretly 
one of the sources of their power and wealth. 
So few outside the realm have any idea of what 
truly happens within the faerie demesnes that 
this rumor has gained the most traction among 
the cynical. If it were true, it would be one tidy 
explanation for the sheer amount of wealth and 
magical power that the faerie lords and ladies 
seem invariably to possess. The value of orichal-
cum is so high, covert trading and sales would 
ensure that there was never a worry over nuyen 
in the Sixth World. 
One of the other most commonly held beliefs 
is that it isn’t an item, but a formula; a new se-
cret way for alchemists to refine reagents to cre-
ate orichalcum. Something that corps like Saed-
er-Krupp or Aztechnology have been working on 
for decades but aren’t sharing with anyone. Few 
would put it past a dragon to hoard the secret to 
a vast fortune—that’s pretty much SOP for them. 
Yet if it were real and in the hands of one of these 
corporations, most feel there would be some sort 
of evidence—or at the very least, a patent. While 
solid proof has not been found, people rang-
ing from the slickest decker to the most tradi-
tion-bound magician remain desperately curious 
to get their hands on any sort of clue that could 
lead to the stone and the unimaginable wealth it 
would bring. 
PLOTS IF YOU HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON YOUR TEAM:
•	
It takes an alchemist to discern truth from 
fiction when it comes to the Philospher’s 
Stone. Mr. Johnson is looking for just such 
an alchemist, and he hires you and your 
team to investigate a lead.
•	
A corp alchemist in a subsidiary of the Big 
Ten has made a breakthrough, and she is 
willing to sell it to the highest bidder. Your 
team has a chance to get to her before she 
can make her auction happen.
•	
You have managed to come into posses-
sion of a scrap of some formula. Finding 
the rest may lead to a discovery that is on 
everyone’s lips. Track down the other piec-
es and try your luck.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    203

===== PDF p205 =====
PLOTS IF YOU DO NOT HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON THE TEAM:
•	
There’s a run in the works. A shipment of 
reagents that can be used to refine orichal-
cum is coming into town. Hitting the ship-
ment could net a small but tidy profit, but 
following it to the destination could bring 
in some information worth far more than a 
few nuyen. 
•	
An alchemist contact is targeted by a cor-
poration for acquisition. She doesn’t want 
to enter the corporate lifestyle and needs 
any help she can get to escape their securi-
ty team and take on a new life in the shad-
ows. Get it done and she’s willing to turn 
over a clue to a powerful artifact that has 
been in her family for generations.
•	
A Mr. Johnson who happens to be an al-
chemist was spurned by a partner and 
colleague walking out on years of collab-
oration, forming her own corporation. He 
wants to know what, if any, progress has 
been made and to what extent the IP of the 
former company is being built upon.
HARVESTING THE  
COURT OF SHADOWS
>	
 Word has it that Tír Tairngire and Tír na nÓg have a near-
infinite storehouse of unknown reagents they keep from 
those of us who live in the muck. I’ve tried here and there 
to make deals, do any job, or beg, borrow, and steal to 
gain access. Whatever the fae have in mind, they ain’t 
sharing with the likes of us. Once they threatened to turn 
me in, I quit trying.
>	
Megalith
The realms of Tír Tairngire and Tír na nÓg have 
always been a shrouded mystery. To this day, few 
know of the realms these nations hide, the gate-
ways to the planes of the true fae, which are ac-
cessible only through closely guarded and secret 
ways. While the masses may be unaware, the 
magical community, particularly alchemists, have 
begun to question the origin point of these re-
agents of legendary beasts. This has encouraged 
the brave and the foolhardy to begin to actively 
seek hidden paths into the realm of the Seelie 
Court. Seeking to acquire knowledge and pow-
er unseen on the earthly plane since the end of 
the Fourth World, these runners hope to be some 
of the first to explore, and exploit, what possible 
treasures might be found in secret forests and fa-
erie mounds. 
Already there have been documented explora-
tions into the hidden hearts of faerie. Some few 
adventurous souls have made their way to the 
realm of the Seelie Court and survived to tell the 
tale. More common are the stories of those who 
sought and failed to find the entrances, let alone 
make their way into the endless forest. More com-
mon are the denizens of faerie who have begun 
to make their way into the material plane of the 
Sixth World. These creatures, some mentioned 
only in legend and myth, now walk among other 
metahumans. Tales of the Baobhan sith or the kay-
eri have made their way to alchemists and talis-
mongers who lust after the possibility of trading in 
unobtainable reagents. Others seek these critters 
for experiments, wondering what might be possi-
ble with the anatomies of these beasts who have 
lived their lives surrounded by mana unfamiliar to 
the Sixth World. It is impossible to say who is the 
hunter and who is the hunted as both sides seek to 
find their own places in the world of corporations 
and shadows. 
With the growing knowledge of the existence 
of the Seelie Court and the doorways that lead to 
USING THE PHILOSOPHER’S 
STONE IN THE GAME
The Philosopher’s Stone is an incredibly potent item that 
could easily unbalance a game. It is also a legendary item and 
quest worthy of longtime runners and agents in the shadows. 
Gamemasters should be careful in how they introduce the 
Philosopher’s Stone into their game sessions. Low-level 
runners just starting out may be hired by more powerful agents 
to investigate leads, acquire reagents, or hit a corporation 
subsidiary for clues. More powerful runners might go after the 
Big Ten to get the secrets of corporate alchemy. Finding the 
Philosopher’s Stone itself should be only used as a climactic 
moment, or as a reason to paint a giant target on the backs 
of your runners to see how they handle it. The gamemaster 
is free to invent their own components for the formula and 
should feel free to keep its creation mercurial, requiring 
varying ingredients and procedures in what is the antithesis of 
established mundane chemistry.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
204    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p206 =====
their home plane, the more suspicious have begun 
to believe that Tír Tairngire isn’t a bastion for the 
elves so much as a forward base. Old family lines 
tell conflicting stories of faerie allies from the past 
as well as of their alien emotions and power in bat-
tle. Very few governments are truly comfortable 
with the idea that the power of a hidden realm 
backs the growing strength of the elven nation, full 
of unknown reagents and powerful magic, to say 
nothing of untold beings that no one in the Sixth 
World has any idea how to combat. 
PLOTS IF YOU HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON YOUR TEAM:
•	
A local talismonger has come into a supply 
of reagents from the fabled realms of the 
faerie. Now strange and dangerous things 
are plaguing him wherever he goes. He 
wants to offload his inventory fast, and you 
may be the one to take them off his hands. 
If you’re willing to risk the danger, and have 
the nuyen to pay the bill, the possibility of 
rare and exotic reagents could be yours.
•	
An elf from Tír Tairngire has a proposition. 
A thief has found his way to the elven realm 
and stolen cache of valuable seeds that 
may even be reagents. She wants you to 
hunt down the thief and retrieve her prop-
erty, but she needs an alchemist to identify 
the missing items. Doing so could earn you 
an invitation to the hidden forests of the Tír.
•	
The opportunity to create a formula with 
unknown effects presents itself to the run-
ners. The current possessor of the formula 
can supply the location of the reagents, but 
she needs an alchemist who can handle 
the refinement process and the dangers 
that come with it. If you can get it done, 
and survive the process, this score could 
set you up for some time. 
PLOTS IF YOU DO NOT HAVE 
AN ALCHEMIST ON THE TEAM:
•	
An adventurer is looking for a protection 
team to run cover while he attempts an 
incursion into the Faerie plane. He’s got a 
way in and out with the loot, but no job is 
done until the escape is clean. Your team 
must protect him from the location back to 
his safe house no matter what critters may 
try and come after him. 
•	
One of the Seelie themselves have come 
to the earthly plane. She’s in search of one 
of the more dangerous inhabitants of her 
realm who has escaped the boundaries and 
made its way here. It is up to your team to 
hunt this creature down and return it to the 
Seelie. Failure will lead to exposure, some-
thing the Seelie will not tolerate. The payoff 
is huge, but so are the risks.
•	
A fixer has had her supply of Faerie realm 
goods cut off from her source in Tir Tairn-
gire. She’s looking for you to investigate 
whether it was the elves who put a kink in 
her supply chain, or possibly something 
worse. Being the lone supplier of other-
worldly goods has made the fixer rich, but 
some risks may not be worth the rewards. 
INFECTED 
ALCHEMY
>	
I’ve had a good deal of complex entanglements with the 
Infected looking for my son. Some of them were passive, 
while others tried to bite me on sight. Every time I think 
my son has passed on, I hear rumors about Infected 
magicians working with alchemy. Sounds insane, right? 
Shouldn’t be possible, but when he left, he took some of 
my notebooks. If nothing else, my kid had a promising 
future with magic. Research of this kind falls under the 
category of things people shouldn’t mess with, lest the 
Almighty unleash a new plague. 
>	
Megalith
HMHVV is something we all know about. Most 
of us try to avoid it, while a few seek it out, thinking 
the powers it brings are worth the trade-offs. They’re 
DEALING WITH FAE
One thing all the stories agree on, no matter the fable or 
faerie tale, is that nothing is more dangerous than making a 
deal with a Faerie, except breaking one. Masters of contracts 
and language both, they are slippery creatures who will twist, 
bend, and interpret any word to make it suit their whims, 
without violating the letter of their agreements. They can also 
be unexpectedly powerful allies when handled correctly. As 
long as you keep your wits sharp, your aim sharper, and a 
spell ready at your fingers, you should be fine. Success brings 
reward beyond measure, and failure can lead to a fate worse 
than death. Just another night in the shadows, eh, chummer?
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    205

===== PDF p207 =====
a minority, though; for every person looking to be-
come a vampire, there are a dozen who would be 
happy to have a cure that would allow them to live 
a normal metahuman life. As many people seeking 
to perform the impossible have done in the past, 
some of these individuals have turned to alchemy.
Alchemy and the Infected can be a dangerous 
mix. Compounds and preparations can enhance 
the already-potent abilities of a variety of different 
HMHVV strains. Recently, though, there have been 
discoveries of compounds that are anathema to 
some who have contracted the virus, and possibly 
a dream realized for others. A formula for a partic-
ular compound is rumored to have made its way 
to the hands of some few runners and possibly 
a corporation. Reportedly it impedes the further 
mutation of one infected with HMHVV. Such an in-
oculation could be the first step in a cure for HM-
HVV. This could be incredibly valuable—though 
there are some forces, notably agents of Asaman-
do, who would be interested in burying any such 
formula where it can never be found. 
PLOTS IF YOU HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON YOUR TEAM:
•	
A facilitator has come forward. There’s a 
powerful Infected magician who seeks re-
agents that can only be harvested in the 
direct light of the noonday sun. Find these 
reagents and bring them to him, and he’ll 
trade secrets found in the shadows. 
•	
Megalith, a well-known runner alchemist, 
has information on a possible location for 
his son. If you and your team can find and 
retrieve him, he’ll reward you handsomely 
with formulas and reagents he’s developed 
in his research.
•	
The scion of a wealthy family has contract-
ed HMHVV, and her family is desperate to 
see her condition stabilized. Conventional 
medical and magical assistance have failed. 
Her family has little hope for relief, but if her 
condition could be stabilized, they would 
pay handsomely. They’ll accept treatment 
from any source, even an alchemical one.
PLOTS IF YOU DO NOT HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON THE TEAM:
•	
An Infected gang has kidnapped the 
daughter of a powerful politician. Suppos-
edly they wish to use her for some ritual, 
so she’s still alive—for the time being. Bring 
her back alive and you’ll be rewarded. Save 
her and eliminate the vampires and you 
could be set for life.
•	
There are rumors of a stronghold of vam-
pires nearby. The first team sent to try to 
eliminate them suffered almost complete 
annihilation. The sole survivor returned 
with stories of elaborate magical traps 
and blood-red potions that increased their 
speed and power. Any team brave enough 
to approach them in their lair could come 
away with a treasure trove of valuable al-
chemical components and tools.
•	
There’s a bounty on vampire blood. Some 
say there’s a corp working on an actual 
cure for HMHVV, and they need blood for 
research. If you could harvest enough, you 
could earn a generous chunk of change—
whether the cure works or not.
ANCIENT SECRETS 
IN MODERN HANDS 
(CORPORATE ALCHEMY 
CRACKDOWN)
>	
I speak from personal experience when I say that the 
corporations are cracking down on unaligned alchemists. 
We’re a threat to their control. The right formula mixed 
with a new reagent and new brewing technique could 
create a compound or preparation that could change 
the world. Sounds great, right? Why would anyone 
fight that? Because the corporations don’t want things 
to change. Profits are up. And anything outside of their 
USING A POSSIBLE HMHVV CURE
The Infected make NPCs for any game, especially with 
their capabilities enhanced by alchemy or other magical 
skills. They can be challenging antagonists or powerful allies 
depending on the actions and reactions of the characters. A 
possible magical compound that is both addicting but also a 
way to stall an infection of HMHVV from taking effect is also 
a valuable resource to any character who may have gotten 
infected. Runners may also be hired to steal stores of the 
compound, kidnap an alchemist who is capable of creating it, 
or be sent out to find the reagent necessary for its production. 
Characters who learn this formula could even find themselves 
targets of similar kidnappings from desperate corporate 
parents who wish to save a child—or themselves. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
206    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF p208 =====
control challenges that. If one of us discovered a simple 
compound to cure HMHVV, it would tank their aftercare 
division. Misery brings profits. The problem with 
alchemists is that we can share our magic. Hope is the 
only cure for misery. 
>	
Megalith
Alchemy is the hot new research trend in cor-
porate research, with significant funding being 
diverted to alchemical divisions of Aztechnology, 
Mitsuhama, Ares, and other corps. Companies 
that once focused on things like designer drugs 
and pharmaceuticals are now just as interested in 
alchemical compounds and the uses of reagents. 
Alchemical substances have been developed with 
a variety of industrial applications as corporations 
rush to integrate new materials into product de-
signs. The trend has created secondary markets as 
the manufacturing of technological devices to aid 
in alchemical research and production has surged 
due to a wide range of efforts to cash in on the lat-
est craze. Amidst all of this, corporate lawyers and 
lobbyists are working overtime seeking to secure 
legislation granting patent and intellectual prop-
erty rights to their corporate benefactors, as cor-
porate security is being tested by deckers looking 
to pry away a few secrets. Rumors of the Philoso-
pher’s Stone, the new and exotic reagents hitting 
the market, and espionage attempts looking to 
lift formulas for compounds and preparations are 
all indicators of the growing popularity of alche-
my in the Sixth World. Where demand exists, the 
corps see the opportunity to make a profit. Patent-
ing compound formulas and litigating those who 
might attempt to duplicate them; designing and 
producing custom compounds for the wealthy 
and powerful; and sending shadowrunners on cor-
porate-espionage raids are all on the rise. Because 
of this, there has also been a corporate crackdown 
on all things alchemical. Agents of different corpo-
rations have begun frequenting the shops of talis-
mongers to identify their compounds and pursue 
any possible copyright infringement. There is also 
plenty of effort going into hiring freelancers so 
that their ideas and creations become corporate 
property. The possibility of large piles of nuyen 
has made information on alchemy and its practi-
tioners valuable, and so those who work outside 
the corporate structure are finding themselves in 
an increasingly uncomfortable spotlight.
Alchemists who accept corporate offers have 
become like songbirds in gilded cages. They are 
treated well, worked hard, and utterly incapable of 
leaving once they have signed their name on that 
dotted line. Some few have managed to escape, 
at least for now, but most are lured by the prom-
ises of an easy life without ever realizing they are 
signing away their freedom. Word on the streets 
is that many regret that decision and continually 
seek a way out. 
PLOTS IF YOU HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON YOUR TEAM:
•	
An agent of one of the Big Ten is on to your 
alchemist. Rumors have spread about their 
talent, and these agents are not taking no 
for an answer. Their overtures are under-
mining your street cred and drawing un-
wanted attention to some of your dealings. 
Flee to a new place, or crack corporate 
security and erase any trace of their exis-
tence. The choice is yours, but choose fast.
•	
A client has a corporate alchemist rela-
tive who they haven’t heard from in far too 
long. They were supposedly working on 
something major but abruptly broke con-
tact. They are willing to pay for information 
or contact. The more you can find out, the 
more you’ll get paid. As a side benefit, the 
client could care less how you accomplish 
your task. There may be some clue in the 
alchemical notes she found.
•	
Your last job brought with it the reward of a 
new formula, liberated thanks to some cre-
ative hacking, and the corporations want it. 
Time to find out what it is, what it does, and 
why they want it before they track you down. 
PLOTS IF YOU DO NOT HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON THE TEAM:
•	
Ms. Johnson has a client who wants out. All 
but permanently indentured as a corporate 
alchemist, they’ll do anything to escape 
their cage. Get in, get the client, and get out.
•	
When you gather enough alchemists to-
gether, there are secrets to be had. A tal-
ented decker with some on-site backup 
may be able to score some sweet info for 
sale if they can penetrate corporate securi-
ty and break into a corporate alchemy lab.
•	
A startup corporation has an alchemical 
prototype that they’re transporting to a po-
tential client. The product of thousands of 
hours and millions of nuyen, its status as 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    207

===== PDF p209 =====
intellectual property has yet to be legally 
established. The corporation is willing to 
take no risks with its transport and wants 
you as additional security as it moves. The 
catch is, there’s a bigger corporation who 
sees the prototype as derivative of their 
work, and they’re not going to leave this to 
the lawyers—some bigger guns have been 
dispatched.
TOXICITY
>	
Toxic alchemists are starting to give the rest of us a bad 
name, feeding off the misery, and killing the world for 
temporary power. If you can end one of these bastards, 
you are doing us all a favor. 
>	
Megalith
Practitioners of the Twisted Way are a terrifying 
proposition to any who hear of them. Feeding on 
corruption to increase their power is bad enough 
on its own. When you add to that the power of 
alchemy to refine mana to a more powerful form, 
they truly become the stuff of nightmares. Where 
most of the toxic magicians and adepts are rath-
er conspicuous, prone to flashy spells of corrup-
tion and pollution, those who combine these skills 
with alchemy take what might have been a deadly 
but small impact and expand it into a significantly 
broader threat.
One particular unintended side effect of toxic 
alchemists has been a blessing for the corpora-
tions. By pointing out the damage they cause not 
just to individuals but to entire areas, the corps 
have been able to assure the public that alchemy 
is best left to the professionals, paving the way for 
regulatory practices which would provide barriers 
to entry for smaller competitors. Furthermore, this 
perception has lowered public opinion of alche-
my in general, making practitioners far warier of 
announcing their profession unless under the pro-
tection of corporate security. Chemistry done in 
the lab, after all, is research, but chemistry done in 
the basement is potential terrorism.
Those alchemists and talismongers who har-
vest reagents have their own complaints about 
Toxic magicians. Reportedly, they are the only 
ones who can truly gain benefit out of tainted re-
agents, and they aren’t willing to just take the left-
overs of others. They are going out and purpose-
fully corrupting entire neighborhoods and forests 
to taint the ambient mana of the reagents within. 
This drives away competition for reagents from 
the alchemists and talismongers who cannot har-
vest anything of worth from these polluted places. 
 
PLOTS IF YOU HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON YOUR TEAM:
•	
A toxic alchemist has entered the area and 
begun his campaign of tainting the local 
ambient mana. Your team’s alchemist has 
got her work cut out for her, as only al-
chemy can halt the toxic spread. If he isn’t 
stopped and soon, there will be nothing 
but tainted reagents safe to harvest any-
where in the surrounding area. 
•	
The only source of drop bear saliva in the 
local area has become warped and twisted 
by toxic energy. Find the source, destroy it, 
and cleanse the reagents before those who 
have been taking the compound to resist 
infection need their next dose. 
•	
An alchemical drug has been spreading, 
rumored to be highly addictive while slow-
ly exposing the user to toxicity. Your team’s 
alchemist needs to work to inoculate the 
spread of those afflicted while tracking the 
product back to its source.
PLOTS IF YOU DO NOT HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON THE TEAM:
•	
Land around an old shrine in the woods 
has begun to shift from a forest glade to a 
bog-like swamp. No one knows why, but 
the locals want answers. Mr. Johnson will 
pay you to investigate and find out what is 
causing it.
CORPORATE ALCHEMISTS
Characters who are alchemists may find themselves 
targeted by corporations looking to recruit them. Runners 
could be hired to kidnap a promising researcher from one 
corp to another or prevent such a planned kidnapping. There 
are myriad ways that the crackdown on alchemy can be 
implemented within a game. The rumors of the Philosopher’s 
Stone or the reagents from the Seelie Court are two ways to 
bring alchemists to the attention of a corporation or subsidiary, 
leading to a need to either escape or make a deal. No matter 
the power level, having an alchemist in the group or known to 
them as an ally offers a very easy hook into any corporate plot. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
208    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
