
===== FA p194 =====
reinvented and repurposed in the Sixth World to 
help push the boundaries of alchemy. While the 
list below is not exhaustive, as additional tools 
are developed every day, several stand out in the 
field. Corporations and runners alike continue to 
develop any advantage they can to facilitate not 
just profit, but survival, within the Sixth World. 
ATOMIZER
Developed during the early resurgence of alchemy 
as a practice, the atomizer is more a delivery device 
than it is an actual tool. The key to this device lies 
in its ability to take solid or liquid compounds and 
break them down into an aerosol spray without any 
loss in power or effect. This enables both healing 
and poison effects that would normally be com-
mand triggered to be created as contact triggers 
while retaining efficacy. The nature of the atomizer 
itself keeps contact with the device from activat-
ing the contact trigger. This enables the atomizer 
to spray out its payload which will then activate 
upon contact. Rumors exist about atomizers that 
may hold more than one compound “cartridge” at 
a time, though none can verify the truth of them. 
Effect: One compound may be converted from 
a solid or liquid into an aerosol when inserted into 
the atomizer. Compounds made with a contact 
trigger are not enacted until they contact a sub-
stance after being fired from the atomizer. Atom-
izers can be used to make a ranged attack with a 
maximum range of three meters. 
Price: 500 nuyen for the atomizer itself, 5 nuy-
en for an empty cartridge
ALEMBIC
The original distillery, the term “alembic” en-
compasses all three pieces required for the dis-
tilling process. Alchemists may use this device 
to increase the potency of the product their re-
agents produce. By distilling down to the im-
portant essence, more refined reagents are pro-
duced during the process from the same original 
amount of base ingredient. As such, the standard 
ten drams of reagent will produce two drams of 
refined, instead of one. The same process applies 
to further enhancement of refined reagents into 
radicals at the same ratio. 
Effect: Using an alembic during the refinement 
process doubles the amount of refined or radical 
reagents created. 
Price: 3,000 nuyen
ATHANOR
An athanor is a furnace used in the alchemical re-
finement process. It provides a constant rate of 
heat vital to the successful creation of refined and 
radical reagents. New technologies have allowed 
for the perfection of this device, a rare case where 
technology benefits the magical rather than hin-
ders it. An athanor provides a strong and consis-
tent flame that requires little maintenance. This 
allows an alchemist to spend more time on other 
projects without having to constantly attend to 
other reagents they are refining. 
Effect: An athanor grants the alchemist leeway 
in the refinement and circulation process. During 
the refinement process of standard reagents, an 
alchemist may step away for up to one hour during 
the ten-hour process without ill effect. When un-
dergoing the month-long process of creating 
orichalcum, an alchemist may check on the refine-
ment process once every twelve hours, instead of 
every ten. 
Price: 1,000 nuyen
CRUCIBLE
No matter how careful the alchemist, there are 
times when reagents become corrupted, or when 
the reagents are lower quality than desired. The 
crucible was reintroduced to alchemy to combat 
this effect. Careful use of this device can allow an 
alchemist to steam away the impurities found in 
some reagents and increase their potency. There 
are limits of course, and a crucible can’t be ex-
pected to perform miracles. It can, however, al-
low a canny talismonger who is willing to take 
the time and effort to vastly increase their profit 
margin. By buying less desirable reagents and re-
fining them with a crucible, they can scrape every 
nuyen possible out of a sale. 
Effect: By using a crucible, an alchemist may 
upgrade the quality of a reagent one step. This 
takes the same amount of time as a standard re-
finement cycle of ten hours. A reagent may be 
upgraded from superior to prime in this manner, 
but it may not be enhanced any further than prime 
quality. 
Price: 500 nuyen
VAULT OF AGES
The “vault of ages” is the most common name 
for this relatively recent innovation. Taken from 
the habit of secretive alchemists who hide their 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    193

===== FA p195 =====
formulas and creations in secret vaults covered 
in traps, the preservative nature of this item 
gives it the name. First invented by a talismonger 
skilled in alchemy, the vault of ages helps miti-
gate the greatest flaw in crafted items. From the 
moment of creation, alchemical compounds and 
preparations begin to degrade. Dependent on 
the strength of the creator, they can quickly be-
come useless if too much time passes, becoming 
a massive waste of resources and time. The vault 
stabilizes alchemical creations, halting the degra-
dation process for the duration of time it remains 
within the vault. 
Effect: A vault of ages may store a number of 
alchemical compounds or preparations equal to 
twice the Magic rating of its creator. The Rating of 
these items cannot be more than twice the rating 
of the vault. While within the confines of the vault, 
these items do not degrade. The degradation 
clock starts ticking as soon as they are removed. 
Price: 2,000 nuyen per Magic Rating to a 
max of 5
NEW COMPOUNDS 
Alchemy is a constantly evolving field of mysti-
cal study as practitioners, from solo magicians 
to teams of corporate researchers, experiment 
and explore new uses for reagents. Their ultimate 
goal is to discover new compounds that will make 
them rich, famous, and/or powerful. Many who 
make such a discovery hoard their knowledge 
to corner the market and maximize their profits. 
There are also those who seek to reverse-engi-
neer the newest fad, analyzing a compound and 
taking it apart to find how it was made. Whether it 
is undercutting a rival or finding new and cheaper 
ways to produce the compound, any talismonger 
worth their salt always has their ear to the ground 
for the newest creation. 
Persistent runners can find talismongers willing 
to sell some of these compounds, but it’s neither 
easy nor cheap—due to the time it takes to cre-
ate them versus the time they last before potency 
runs out, these compounds are not exactly sitting 
on store shelves. Still, runners are known for hav-
ing contacts who might have unlikely items, and 
sometimes a talismonger friend might just have 
the item on hand that can provide important assis-
tance to a runner team.
The lack of a standard market for these items 
leads to a lack of standard pricing. Still, there is a 
baseline to consider, and it looks like this: [(Force 
of spell involved) + (Current Potency)] x 500¥. 
Another factor that might raise the price is wheth-
er there is a current scarcity of required reagents 
(either globally or locally). Base availability for 
all compounds is 14R. Creating alchemical com-
pounds requires advanced alchemy metamagic 
(p. 153, Street Grimoire).
ALCHEMICAL DUCT TAPE
Few things have endeared alchemists to riggers 
and deckers more than the creation of this com-
pound. While on a run, there is never enough 
time to repair a damaged vehicle or drone to per-
fection. Sometimes you just need to get it work-
ing and get moving. That’s where alchemical duct 
tape comes in. By slapping this on and activating 
the compound, complex repairs can be achieved 
in an instant. Use of this compound is the only 
magical repair possible, after which more mun-
dane efforts are required to fix the machine.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, this compound 
magically repairs a non-living target. Each 
hit upon activation repairs one point of 
structure or one box of damage, as per the 
spell Fix (p. 116, Street Grimoire).
•	
Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined mallard fat
ASTRAL INCREASE 
The limits on a magician’s ability to manifest 
can seriously threaten the success of a run. Al-
chemists have finally created a solution for this 
problem thanks to the rediscovery of the ghost 
orchid. These ethereal flower petals enhance the 
magician within the astral plane. The careful and 
ALCHEMICAL TOOLS
ITEM
COST
AVAILABILITY
Atomizer
500¥
4
     Cartridge
5¥
2
Athanor
1,000¥
4
Crucible
500
2
Vault of ages
2,000 x Rating
(Rating +4)R
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
194    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== FA p196 =====
repeated refinement imbues the user with that 
dual nature, enhancing their physical and ethe-
real nature at the same time. Ghost orchids are 
incredibly difficult to cultivate outside of the wild. 
Doing so requires a level of care and concern that 
few are willing to put forth. Ghost orchids are 
most potent when harvested under the light of a 
full moon, especially in spots where the light may 
reach the petals unimpeded. 
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: Once ingested, this compound dou-
bles the amount of time a magician may re-
main manifested while in astral projection.
•	
Aftereffect: Winded side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Radical ghost orchid 
petals.
ASTRAL BOND
Normally the bond between body and soul is not 
strong enough to invoke other prepared items in 
the alchemist arsenal. This compound resolves 
that issue, reinforcing that bond and allowing 
mana to flow to the prepared items. This com-
pound mystically encases that elusive connect-
ing silver cord in steel, conveying a stronger bond 
between body and soul while inhibiting neither. 
While under the effect of this compound, many 
users have spoken of the ease of travel and re-
sponse while astral, almost as if their body itself 
was there instead of just their soul. 
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: While this compound lasts, the 
bond between body and astral form is 
much stronger. While manifesting, the tar-
get may activate command triggers. 
•	
Aftereffect: Can’t Speak side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined organ from in-
sect host.
BAOBHAN’S TEARS
The worst nightmare of many a magician, bao-
bhan’s tears is a contact poison that deals dam-
age to the body as well as to the ability to shape 
mana. While this compound does not share the 
addictive qualities of the real kiss, the blend of 
euphoria remains, even while at odds with the 
damage it inflicts on the body. 
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: Upon contact with the skin or in-
halation, this poison deals 4P damage that 
may only be resisted by Body. If any dam-
age is not resisted, the target also loses 1 
point of Essence for the next twenty-four 
hours. Repeated doses of this poison may 
inflict damage, but only 1 point of Essence 
may be lost during the twenty-four-hour 
period after initial infection.
•	
Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined tears of a bao-
bhan sith (p. 114, Court of Shadows)
DRAIN AWAY
Holding the ability to lower the damage caused 
by drain, this compound has become one of the 
most feared in the arsenal of dark aspect magi-
cians. It can only be made with the mana-fueled 
veins of an adept, and producing this compound 
pushes past lines even most shadowrunners will 
not cross. Countless adepts perished before the 
formula was perfected. Now it spreads deep 
within the shadows for those willing to pay the 
price for power. Dark traditions and insect sha-
mans are known to carry a dose as a trump card 
few could expect.
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: Once imbibed, the next time the 
target would take physical damage from 
drain, that damage is negated.
•	
Aftereffect: Nauseated side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined veins of the 
adept
DULLED EDGES 
When damage is inevitable, reducing the target’s 
ability to inflict damage itself is a cunning tool. 
This poison dulls the edges of the target, lower-
ing their reaction times, weakening their muscles, 
and sapping their strength. Even the mightiest 
street samurai fears the moment when their body 
is turned against them. 
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: Once it contacts a target, this com-
pound decreases the target’s Physical limit 
by 2 for 3 turns. 
•	
Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Radical killdeer antler 
(p. 97, Howling Shadows)
FEEL NO PAIN
Known as FNP on the streets, feel no pain delays 
the need for sleep, food, or even water. While it 
doesn’t eliminate these urges, it can delay them 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    195

===== FA p197 =====
until the user is in a better place to handle these 
basic needs. Quite popular among corp workers 
who are closing in on a project deadline, since 
nothing gets you through it faster than a bit of 
FNP. There are very real dangers when it comes to 
this alchemical compound. More than three days 
of consecutive use of FNP brings risks of addic-
tion as well as fatigue and disorientation (Addic-
tion Rating 4, Addiction Threshold 2; see p. 172, 
409, and 414, SR5).
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, every net hit counts 
as one hour of sleep for the purposes of 
resisting fatigue. It also allows a target to 
skip one meal per net hit with no ill effects. 
When the duration of FNP ends, the effects 
of dehydration and starvation immediately 
apply to the subject. 
•	
Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Radical kayeri mush-
room
FORCE OF PERSONALITY
For those who heavily engage in combat in the 
astral plane, this compound is a godsend. Alche-
mists have developed a gel that enhances the abil-
ity of a magician or adept to deal damage to astral 
creatures and constructs alike. The compound can 
also be helpful to non-magicians who wish to dis-
play enhanced levels of charisma and charm. Few 
are willing to endure the side effects without sub-
stantial reason, due to the risks it entails.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: This compound must be applied to 
the target’s skin and then activated. While 
active, the target’s Charisma is increased 
by 2 for the purposes of astral combat 
only. Such an artificial increase manifest-
ing on the astral plane requires a potent 
ability, and comes with an equally debili-
tating side effect.
•	
Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Radical ghost orchid 
petals
HMHVV II INHIBITOR 
Developed in secret by the Aztechnology Al-
chemy division, this compound is only sold and 
then administered to approved and vetted elite 
corporate citizens who sign a specialized NDA 
to prevent rogue alchemists from attempting to 
reverse-engineer it. A new and rare inoculation, 
this magical compound prevents further progress 
of HMHVV II as long as the compound is contin-
ually ingested. 
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: This compound must be con-
sumed once every seven days. As long 
as the regimen is maintained, all progress 
of HMHVV II is halted. This is not a cure, 
merely an inhibitor. Failure to continue 
dosing will allow the virus to progress 
once more, often more virulent than be-
fore due to the repression. There is also 
a possibility of addiction when using the 
inhibitor; it has Addiction Rating 3, Ad-
diction Threshold 1.
•	
Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined drop bear sali-
va (p. 60, Howling Shadows)
LAMINATE 
Many traditions use writings or symbols painted 
or drawn upon an item for their alchemical prepa-
rations. These markings are susceptible to dam-
age or accident, rendering the time and energy 
spent on them wasted. Recently, the infamous 
alchemist Megalith released this compound to 
spite the Aztechnology Alchemical division.
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: An aerosol spray that when applied 
coats a layer of writing or runes in a thin 
protective gel. Unable to stand up to any 
real damage, (1 point of Physical damage 
destroys the layer) it will protect from ac-
cidental scuffing or blurring through in-
advertent contact. For example, a sword 
with runes drawn upon the blade may be 
sheathed and unsheathed without damag-
ing the inked writing. 
•	
Aftereffect: Blinded (One Eye) side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined slug glands
PERFECT SIGHT
Perfect sight has hit the streets, and for the first 
time non-magicians have an inkling of what it’s 
like to see the astral plane. Some use this just as a 
recreational drug, seeing sights they never imag-
ined could exist from the comfort of their own 
homes. Enterprising runners and corporations 
have also made use of this compound. Guards 
can detect the dual-natured, or even warn their 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
196    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== FA p198 =====
superiors about astral beings attempting to ac-
cess secure locations. Runners can keep an eye 
on their astral counterparts without requiring 
them to waste time manifesting. This increased 
bond to the astral does come at a cost however, 
as use of this increases the noise (p. 441, SR5) in 
the local area.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When applied to the eyes and 
commanded to activate, this compound 
allows the target to perceive the astral 
plane. Throughout the duration of this 
compound, the ambient noise in an area 
is increased by the net hits achieved when 
activated as per the spell Interference (p. 
117, Street Grimoire)
•	
Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined ghost orchid 
petals
SHARPSHOOTER
One shot, one kill. The motto of the sniper, and 
harder to accomplish in this age of advanced 
magical and mundane protection. This com-
pound returns some of that danger and abili-
ty to the sniper by removing the pesky im-
pediments of range or perception. A cunning 
alchemist has managed to combine the spells 
of Hawkeye and Enhance Aim into one easy-
to-use compound. Even the most experienced 
sniper or gunslinger likes to have a little Sharp-
shooter on hand to ensure they don’t miss when 
they take aim. 
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: Applied to the eyes or in a quickly 
digestible pill, Sharpshooter improves the 
target’s aim as well as negating range mod-
ifiers in increasing increments. For each net 
hit, reduce Range conditions by one cate-
gory (p. 175, SR5). It also grants a +1 dice 
pool modifier for any visual-based percep-
tion tests. 
•	
Aftereffect: Blinded (one eye)
•	
Required Reagent: Radical eyes of a bird 
of prey.
UNSTOPPABLE VIGOR
Another powerful tool in the arsenal of the ma-
gician, this compound makes even the frailest 
mana worker more likely to survive extended 
spellcasting. Far more than the blades or bul-
lets of enemies, drain itself becomes an unwary 
spellcaster’s greatest foe. This compound forc-
es an unnatural stamina to suffuse the body of a 
magician in order to combat the physical dam-
age that drain may inflict. It is a double-edged 
sword, as this increased hardiness can convince 
some to cast spells far beyond their power un-
til they become addicted to it (the compound 
has Addiction Rating 6, Addiction Threshold 
3). This forces them to continue consuming the 
compound to survive the repeated damage of 
drain.
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: Once imbibed, the target gains a 
number of boxes on their Stun Condition 
Monitor equal to the potency of the com-
pound. These boxes are only useful for re-
sisting the damage associated with drain. 
Once the potency expires or the boxes are 
full from drain damage, they disappear and 
the effect ends.
•	
Aftereffect: Slowed side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined drake scales 
(any type)
WATER BREATHING 
There are those who refuse to let such a minor 
setback as being underwater stop them in their 
quest for hidden riches. Use of this compound 
magically imbues the user with gills, allowing 
them to breath easily underwater. This is not 
some mystical conversion, but rather true gills, 
which can be problematic to the inexperienced 
user. While this compound remains in effect, the 
user cannot breathe air alone; they must take 
their oxygen from the water. As such, the truly in-
novative have taken advantage of this fact, apply-
ing the compound to a target and then watching 
their victim suffocate before them.
•	
Trigger: Contact
•	
Effect: The target is empowered with the 
Gills critter power (p. 192, Howling Shad-
ows). While this compound is active, the 
target has real working gills and may only 
breathe underwater. Canceling this effect 
removes them and returns the ability to 
breathe air.
•	
Aftereffect: Winded side effect
•	
Required Reagent: Refined salmon scales
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    197

===== FA p199 =====
NEW ALCHEMICAL 
PREPARATIONS
Alchemical preparations are spells that rely on 
a physical conduit, called the lynchpin, to chan-
nel mana from the astral to the physical realm to 
activate them. Lynchpins are the weak spot in 
any alchemical preparation, as even the slightest 
damage to them will render the entire prepara-
tion inoperable. They can take many forms, from 
arcane writing on paper to the severed hand of 
a murderer mystically imbued with power. Tradi-
tion and imagination are the limit when it comes 
to alchemically preparing a vessel for a spell. 
Rules for purchasing preparations follows the 
same outline as buying compounds (p. 194), name-
ly that they are hard to find—in fact, even more so 
because of the shorter lifespan. The base price is 
[(Force of spell involved) + (Current Potency)] x 
500¥. Base availability for all preparations is 14R.
ABANDON ALL HOPE
Another popular trap and defensive preparation, this 
preparation increases an aura of fear and helpless-
ness in the entire area when activated. By setting this 
up in an area where other traps are located, it be-
comes much easier to deter any who seek to beard 
the alchemist in their lair. This preparation is often 
set upon something of value left easily found. As the 
magic is undetectable until activated, once a would-
be thief touches the item, the fear aura ignites.
•	
Trigger: Contact 
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Foreboding spell upon the area. 
•	
Required Spell: Foreboding (p. 112, Street 
Grimoire)
BARRICADE
A few seconds can seem a lifetime, or make all 
the difference in the world. Upon activating this 
preparation, the structural integrity of a wall or 
door can be increased. Traditional-minded alche-
mists use runes written on paper, which is then 
applied to the target. Other, more innovative 
methods, such as a penny in the door seam, can 
work just as well when properly prepared.
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: Upon activation, the spell Reinforce 
is cast on the object the preparation has 
been applied to. 
•	
Required Spell: Reinforce (p. 118, Street 
Grimoire)
BURN, BABY, BURN
Triple B is one of the most versatile trap-style 
preparations and can take many forms. A room 
filled with flammable gas, with a hidden rune 
upon the floor that ignites the entire room in 
flames. A grenade of flammable liquid, with a 
command rune inscribed upon it. There are myr-
iad ways to capitalize on something igniting in 
flames on command.
•	
Trigger: Command 
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Ignite spell upon the target. 
•	
Required Spell: Ignite (p. 293, SR5)
DO YOUR BEST
Unleashing the limits of body or mind can make 
the difference in any battle. This preparation al-
lows an alchemist to raise the effectiveness of 
herself and others. While this isn’t a guaranteed 
win, it greatly increases the chance of success in 
whatever endeavors a runner might undertake. 
Coated pills are a common form for this prepara-
tion, and when the command word is spoken the 
spell activates. 
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Increase Inherent Limits spell 
upon the target. Only one limit may be in-
creased at one time, and further activation 
of this eliminates the previous version. 
•	
Required Spell: Increase Inherent Limits 
(p. 110, Street Grimoire)
GET AWAY FROM MY RIDE
A getaway vehicle is nothing if it can’t help run-
ners escape. It’s a weakness in any plan, and as 
such, alchemists have devised a way to protect 
that key element of any good escape. Emblems 
and decals are popular forms for these prepara-
tions to make them blend in with the vehicle and 
hide their magical nature until it is too late.	
•	
Trigger: Command
•	
Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Protect Vehicle spell upon the 
target vehicle.
•	
Required Spell: Protect Vehicle (p. 117, 
Street Grimoire)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
198    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
