
===== PDF PAGE IDX 4 =====
THICKER THAN WATER 135
Blood Magic and Addiction 135
BREATH OF THE WILD 138
WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE 142
UNIVERSAL MAGIC THEORY 142
Where Does Magic Come From? 143
Where Does Magic Go? 147
WILD SPIRITS 149
NATURE SPIRITS 151
Domains 151
Spirits of the Land 151
Spirits of the Winds 152
Spirits of the Waters 153
Spirits of Man 155
Wild Beast Spirits 157
Wild Urban Spirits 158
Spirits of Ceramics 159
Spirits of Metal 160
Spirits of Energy 161
Spirits of the Airwaves 161
Vehicle Spirits 162
Vehicles of the Sea 162
Vehicles of the Land 163
Vehicles of the Air 164
Awakened Vehicles 165
Hermetic Elementals 165
Elementals in General 166
Elementals in Particular 167
Four Out of Five Ain’t Bad 167
Platonic Concepts 167
In Closing ... 169
WILD SUMMONING RULES 175
Wild Reputation 175
Accruing Wild Index 176
Wild Reputation 177
Calling Wild Spirits 177
Dealing With  
Wild Spirits 177
Wild Spirit Rules 178
Wild Nature Spirits 179
Wild Beast Spirits 179
Beast Traits 179
Wild Spirits of Man 179
Wild Urban Spirits 180
Ceramic Spirits 180
Metal Spirits  180
Energy Spirits  180
Airwave Spirits  180
Vehicle Spirits 180
Vehicle Spirit Powers 180
Ship Spirits  180
Train Spirits  181
Automotive Spirits  181
Aircraft Spirits  181
Awakened Vehicles 181
Hermetic Elementals 181
Spirits as Contacts 181
OPTIONAL RULES 182
The Mentor’s Mask 182
Spirit Leashing 182
Testing the Leash 182
ADVANCED ALCHEMY 184
LIFE OF A CORPORATE ALCHEMIST 184
MANATECH: RISKS AND REWARDS 185
NEW REAGENTS OF THE SIXTH WORLD  187
Harvesting Reagents 187
Overharvesting Reagents 187
NEW WAYS TO LEVERAGE REAGENTS 187
Raw Reagents 188
Refined Reagents 188
Radical Reagents 188
NEW RARE REAGENTS 188
Reagent: Bone or Hair from a Baobhan Sith 188
Reagent: Drop Bear Saliva 189
Reagent: Ghost Orchid Petals 190
Reagent: Ground Killdeer Antlers 190
Reagent: Kayeri Mushroom 190
NEW EXOTIC REAGENTS 190
Reagent: Drake Scales 191
Reagent: Organ of Insect Spirit Host 191
Reagent: Veins of an Adept 191
ALTERNATIVE USES FOR ORICHALCUM 192
NEW ALCHEMICAL TOOLS  192
Atomizer 193
Alembic 193
Athanor 193
Crucible 193
Vault of Ages 193
NEW COMPOUNDS  194
Alchemical Duct Tape 194
Astral Increase  194
Astral Bond 195
Baobhan’s Tears 195
Drain Away 195
Dulled Edges  195
Feel No Pain 195
Force of Personality 196
HMHVV II Inhibitor  196
Laminate  196
Perfect Sight 196
Sharpshooter 197
Unstoppable Vigor 197
Water Breathing  197
NEW ALCHEMICAL PREPARATIONS 198
Abandon All Hope 198
Barricade 198
Burn, Baby, Burn 198
Do Your Best 198
Get Away from My Ride 198
High as a Kite 199
Noise on the Line 199
NOMW (Not on My Watch) 199
Lightning Blade  199
Spirit Zapper 199
Stink Bomb 199
Stop Thief! 199
Truth Serum 200
Up and At ’Em 200
Watch Your Step 200
THE SYNERGY OF ALCHEMY  
AND DARK TRADITIONS 201
Blood Magic 201
Insect Magic 201
Toxic Magic 202
RESEARCH, RUMORS, AND LEGENDS 203
Philosopher’s Stone 203
Harvesting the Court of Shadows 204
INFECTED ALCHEMY 205
Ancient Secrets in Modern Hands (Corporate 
Alchemy Crackdown) 206
Toxicity 208
THE ALCHEMIST’S GUIDE  
TO SHADOWRUNNING 209
Finding the Sweet Spot: Planning for Drain 209
Selecting the Best Spells for Alchemy 209
Dirty Deeds and Tricks:  
     Watching the Dominoes Fall 210
INDEX 211
Alchemical Tools 211
Compounds 211
Mastery Qualities 211
Mentor Spirits 211
Metamagics 211
Preparations 212
Reagents 212
Rituals 212
Spells 212
Spirits 212
Traditions 212
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
4    CONTENTS & CREDITS >>
© 2017 The Topps Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Shadowrun and Matrix are registered trademarks 
and/or trademarks of The Topps Company, Inc., in the 
United States and/or other countries. No part of this 
work may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, 
or transmitted in any form or by any means, without 
the prior permission in writing of the Copyright Owner, 
nor be otherwise circulated in any form other than that 
in which it is published. Catalyst Game Labs and the 
Catalyst Game Labs logo are trademarks of InMediaRes 
Productions, LLC.
First Printing by Catalyst Game Labs, an imprint of 
InMediaRes Productions, LLC
PMB 202 • 303 -91st Ave. NE, E-502
Lake Stevens, WA 98258
Find us online:
info@shadowruntabletop.com
 ( Shadowrun questions)
http://www.shadowruntabletop.com
 (Catalyst Shadowrun website)
http://www.shadowrun.com
 (official Shadowrun Universe website)
http://www.catalystgamelabs.com
 (Catalyst website)
http://shop.catalystgamelabs.com
 (Catalyst/Shadowrun orders)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 5 =====
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< CONTENTS & CREDITS    5
FORBIDDEN ARCANA CREDITS
Writing: Jason Andrew, Raymond Croteau, Kevin 
Czarnecki, Jeff Fowler, Alexander Kadar, Adam Large, 
O.C. Presley, Scott Schletz, Dylan Stangel, Thomas 
Willoughby
Art Direction: Brent Evans
Cover Art: Victor Manuel Leza Moreno
Cover  Layout: Maxwell “Matt Heerdt” Lamé
Iconography: Nigel Sade
Interior Art: Bruno Balixa, Brent Chumley, Tyler 
Clark, Daniel Comerci, Álvaro Calvo Escudero, Brent 
Evans, Andre Garcia, Michele Giorgi, Phil Hilliker, 
David Hovey, Brian McCranie, Allen Morris, Alex 
Stone, Takashi Tan, Kim Van Deun
Interior Layout: Maxwell “Matt Heerdt” Lamé
Shadowrun Line Developer: Jason M. Hardy
Playtesting & Proofing:  Natalie Aked, Rob Aked, 
Adam Bruno, Chuck Burhanna, Karlene Dickens, Bruce 
Ford, Timothy Gray, Mason Hart, Francis Jose, Kendall 
Jung, David Dashifen Kees, Dave Lundquest, Chris 
Maxfield, Suzanna Powell, Lindsay Riessen,  Richard 
Riessen, Carl Schelin, David Silberstein, Mark Somers, 
Jeremy Weyand, Leland Zavadil
INTRODUCTION
The world of magic is infinite. For everything you 
know, there are a hundred things, a million things, 
that you don’t. You learn how magic works, you 
learn how mana is ordered, then you learn that 
everything you had been taught was wrong. That 
if you just look at it from a different angle, the 
whole system of magic becomes something en-
tirely different. And maybe it isn’t even a system, 
or at least not an orderly one.
Forbidden Arcana is all about exploring the back 
roads and dark corners of magic, discovering the 
hidden truths that tell you how little you knew 
in the first place—and how much more power is 
waiting to be grabbed. It starts with Seeing the 
Invisible World, a guide for both Awakened and 
non-Awakened about what magic looks like in 
practice. If you want to geek the mage first, this is 
your guide to recognizing who is doing the cast-
ing. And if you’re a mage, here are some of the 
tells people will be looking for if they want to rec-
ognize what you’re up to. 
Next is Magical Mastery. While it would be 
great to live long enough to be a master of all 
forms of arcane arts, very few of us are dragons 
or immortal elves, so we are often best served by 
choosing an area to master, becoming better at it 
than anyone else. This chapter is your guide to se-
lecting where to excel and how to do it.
Then we have Traditions, one of the most 
notable ways the Awakened differentiate them-
selves from their peers. With both new and up-
dated traditions, this provides info on how to 
shape magic with your beliefs—or have your be-
liefs shaped by magic. New mentor spirits are 
also included here.
The book then truly delves into the realm of the 
forbidden with Blood Magic. Most mages know 
about the dark paths of those who would inflict 
pain on others to gain power for themselves, but 
this chapter paints the art in a different light, show-
ing those who practice blood magic with aims that 
might be called “good”—insofar as that label can 
be applied to anything in the Sixth World.
Where the Wild Things Are dives into the 
realms of wild spirits, untamed and unruly beings 
whose power may be tapped by brave conjurers—
if they can bear the possible cost to themselves.
Finally, Advanced Alchemy offers tools, ideas, 
reagents, compounds, and more to make alchemy 
more effective and more dangerous.
All these are secrets available to those who 
have put in the effort to learn them, and who have 
paid whatever price is asked of them. They may 
have come to a new awareness of how much they 
have left to learn, but they possess one precious 
truth: No matter how much they don’t know, they 
now know a little than the people they’ll be run-
ning into on the streets. 
===== PDF PAGE IDX 6 =====
A WALK  
IN THE PARK
A light snow covered the ground and tumbled gently from 
the sky, painting a picturesque scene of peace and tranquility 
over the streets. It was a rare thing. Snow in Seattle was not 
common, and peace in Redmond was even rarer. The snow 
was keeping trouble indoors for now and left Abby to stroll 
the streets on her way home from another late night at Stacy 
Sweets’ Diner. 
The peaceful scene lightened her heart, but her mind was 
still Redmond Barrens born and raised. She saw the snow on 
the ground as a way to mark the passage or presence of peo-
ple. The snow was a mixed blessing, as it muffled noise, mak-
ing it both harder to be heard and hear others. The chill air and 
slippery streets kept go-gangers in their garages and cooled 
the heads of thrill-gangs for the night. 
She enjoyed the peace of the streets and the false beauty 
that was laid out over the urban decay and detritus of Red-
mond, but the quiet night presented a rare opportunity for her 
to take a different route home. She cut down an alley, check-
ing for tracks or signs of life before taking the darkened path 
that would lead her towards BI Park, known as Bought Park 
to most locals. The BI stood for Brackhaven Investments, the 
former governor’s financial firm, that had funded the revital-
ization of the park as a bit of PR during the governor’s tenure 
in office. The effort had benefited Brackhaven far more than 
the local community because his construction contracts raked 
in the money from the high-cost urban redevelopment project 
while locals were hassled and abused by the increased Knight 
Errant presence during construction. 
Regardless of local opinions, the final result was a wide ex-
panse of grass, trees, and bushes built within a patch of rolling 
ground, with winding paths and a beautiful open fairway at 
the center that might actually have local children gliding down 
it tomorrow on anything slippery enough to sled on. For now 
that space would be a massive field of white within a winter 
wonderland of the type that Seattle rarely saw. 
Minutes later, Abby was not disappointed as she stood 
at the mouth of another alley staring across the street at the 
white-topped wall of evergreen bushes that ringed the park. 
The metal archway with the script BI at its peak was covered 
in a thin layer of white, contrasting beautifully with its dark 
wrought iron. Beneath the archway, the footpath leading into 
the park was devoid of any marring prints.
Abby changed that quickly. Once inside the maze of tall 
evergreen shrubs, her senses opened to the cold and snow 
rather than the possible dangers of the streets. She laid her 
head back and opened her mouth wide. Tongue out, she en-
joyed the combined sensations of snow gently landing and 
melting on her face and in her mouth. Her stroll was filled with 
moments that would stay with her forever, but the cold, com-
bined with too many cups of soykaf, threatened to cut it short. 
6    >> A WALK IN THE PARK  <<
===== PDF PAGE IDX 7 =====
The night was late, but she was enjoying it far too much 
to end it sooner than needed. She quickened her step toward 
the open central plaza of the park—not to get to the beautiful 
open scenery faster, but because she knew there was a re-
stroom there that she could use and extend her stay in wintery 
dreamscape. 
The warmth of the restroom was a welcome change from 
the cold. After relieving her strained bladder, Abby decid-
ed to take a few minutes to warm up before heading back 
out for more snowy fun. The lady’s restroom actually had a 
sitting area separate from the stalls. It was a strange throw -
back to another day and time when the restroom was a so-
cial stop for women. She sat down and distracted herself by 
clearing her inbox of old messages while checking on a few 
of her favorite P2.0 streams. She uploaded a few pictures 
she had taken before leaving work of the peaceful falling 
snow. She wanted to load some pics of the park, but her 
Redmond upbringing taught her it was better to post about 
where you’ve been than where you are. Instead she dug her 
trodes out from her bag and stuck them around her head 
before replacing her knit cap to hold them in place—and, of 
course, keep her head warm. She linked her commlink to 
her cloud storage and started the sim recording through the 
trodes. Later on, everyone could upload her experience and 
enjoy a moment of peace in Redmond.
As she bundled back up to return to the joyous cold, she 
caught a murmur of what sounded like a voice. She lifted the 
hat from her ears and moved a little closer to the door. The 
sound was distant but carried the distinctive rhythm of speech. 
When it stopped, there was another similarly cadenced reply, 
perhaps with a jovial bounce.
Curious about who was speaking, Abby slipped out the 
door with appropriate Redmond caution. As she slowly 
guided the door closed, night flashed to day. The sudden 
brightness startled her, and the door slipped from her grasp. 
As it connected with the frame, there was a crash like thun-
der. It took Abby a moment to realize the crash was related 
to the flash, not the door. It was like lightning and thunder 
at a distance. 
The voices returned. She froze. This time she could under-
stand them. 
“Did your Wiccan grandmother teach you that one?” The 
voice was jovially mocking. 
“If you have better, gutter slinger, toss away.” The response 
had far less joviality, along with an air of pretentiousness.
“In fact we do! Sickle!” Seemed like the first voice was call-
ing an ally.
Curiosity bubbled up in Abby. The words Wiccan and 
slinger tickled her mind with thoughts of magic. Real magic.  
And it sounded like it was going on nearby. This wasn’t some 
>> A WALK IN THE PARK  <<    7
BY SCOTT SCHLETZ
===== PDF PAGE IDX 8 =====
trid show—this was going to be the real thing. Right in front 
of her. The bubbles of curiosity inside her began to burst into 
excitement. 
Despite the danger of discovery, she crept to the edge of 
the building to get a look. Peeking a single eye around the cor-
ner, she gazed upon the scene before her in awe.
The sloped central fairway of the park was an open ex-
panse of unmolested white. Small groups gathered at the high 
and low ends of the slope. 
Wiz-gangs!
At the high end, Abby could see a half-dozen figures uni-
fied by the shades of red they all wore on their gutter-chic 
garb. She watched as one figure rose into the air, a swirl of 
snow spinning beneath his feet. His red was a jacket the shade 
of fresh blood with an uncountable number of zippers. Abby 
thought of it as infinite pockets for his wizardly materials, a 
flaw in her views based on too many 
Dawn of Atlantis ref-
erences by her little brother. Hovering several meters in the 
air, the man—obviously Sickle—began waving his arms in a 
swirling circular pattern. Wispy white clouds of smoke formed 
around his waving hands that coalesced into white orbs as 
Sickle shifted his swirling hand motion above his head. 
In a flurry of motion, Sickle shot his hands forward. The 
orbs sailed in a high arc across the open space between the 
rival wiz-gangers. 
Abby’s gaze followed the orbs. She didn’t even notice that 
she had shifted further past the corner, her whole head poten-
tially exposed to their view. The orbs sailed high toward the 
collection of gangers with accents of blue and silver on their 
Trés Chic clothing, the starkest contrast between the gangs. 
As the orbs fell, a blonde woman in a sky-blue pantsuit 
cried out, “Aster, I’ve got this!” She swung both arms in wide 
arcs, then held them over her head. The orbs impacted an in-
visible shield, flattening into white lumps. 
Abby laughed to herself at the sight of magic being used to 
have a snowball fight.
The gang in red laughed raucously at the panicked protec-
tive shield defending against the arcane practical joke. “Hey 
Aster, you’re lucky she protected you from all those snow -
balls! Wouldn’t want a a little snow messing up your fancy 
suits!” the leader called out over the distance. 
Abby glanced back and forth between the groups, waiting 
to see what came next. The laughs on the red side dwindled, 
while the frustration and anger grew among the azure-clad 
gangers. 
A mild squabble cascaded through the ranks of the blue 
gang. Abby heard one yell, “Nobody treats the Washington 
Wizards like some common street gang!” So she knew the 
identity of one of the gangs. Abby knew a lot of Redmond’s 
gangs—it was part of surviving in the city—but the Ancients 
was the only wizzer gang she knew, and they weren’t really a 
wizzer gang. They were a go-gang with a lot of magic. Wizzer 
gangs just weren’t common, and they definitely weren’t big. 
She counted a total of fourteen people out in the park, and 
that was probably the entirety of both gangs. 
The rumblings among the Wizards grew steadily worse, 
fed by the laughter of the other gang that grew as their rivals 
failed to respond to their last spell. Abby was still rapt. She had 
heard tales of wizard’s duels but never seen anything of the 
sort. She’d never even seen real magic until now. She waited 
with bated breath for the next spell. 
Abby’s attention was on the wrong gang when it started. 
She was watching the red gang laugh and commiserate when 
from the corner of her eye she saw a flash of white. Snow 
swirled where the Wizards once stood, but they abruptly 
were gone. 
She heard the red gang yell, “Arcanists, prepare to play!” 
The laughter stopped immediately as the gang took up a de-
fensive posture. 
Abby’s eyes darted back and forth between the swirling 
snow and vigilant Arcanists, two of whom rose up into the air, 
lifted by unseen forces. 
When the action came, it was fast and violent. Arcs of 
neon-purple lightning shot down from above the snowswirl, 
their unnatural color contrasting sharply against the snow-
white scene. 
The fire followed quickly. Not the orange, red, and yel-
low of natural fire, this flame shot out and exploded in hues 
of green and blue. It flowed through the air and across the 
ground like burning water. 
The attacks hit sparking shields erected by the Arcanists 
through rapid, flicking hand gestures. The colors flowed into 
and off the shields, not touching the gang of motley mages. 
Abby watched the arcane fireworks with childlike excite-
ment. Her eyes darted everywhere, taking in everything, in-
cluding seeing what the Arcanists missed.
A figure in a black suit accented with top hat and cane 
appeared in the air above and behind the cluster of red-clad 
gangers. None of them noticed him, as they were too fo-
cused on their efforts to repel the onslaught from the front. 
He spread his hands wide to the sides and then clapped them 
together. The force of the spell blasted into the Arcanists on 
the ground. All four tumbled forward. Their defenses broken, 
the raining lightning and fire found targets. Flames exploded 
on the ground and sent the tumbling gangers flying through 
the air. Arcs of lightning connected, stiffening flying figures as 
voltage tensed muscles. Their landings were hard, awkward, 
and painful-looking. 
One of the hovering Arcanists, a woman with a short-
cropped mop of bright-red hair, was quick to react. She spun, 
arms flaring wide. The move sent a wave of energy, made vis-
ible by its effect on the falling snow, through the air. The wall 
of force smacked hard into her hovering foe. The blow sent 
him sailing towards Abby, top hat and cane left behind to tum-
ble to the ground. She lost sight of him as he passed over the 
building she was crouched behind. She looked up and caught 
sight of his continued flight after she heard him hit hard on the 
roof above. He moved on, skipping over the hedge wall and 
into the hedge maze adjoining the pathways of the park.
Abby’s attention was now split in three. She wondered what 
had become of the sailing, suit-clad spellcaster but couldn’t 
bring herself to follow him while the action on the fairway con-
tinued. The Arcanists had recovered from the sneak attack, re-
turning the attack with a ferocity fueled by anger and rage. The 
8    >> A WALK IN THE PARK  <<
===== PDF PAGE IDX 9 =====
anger in their faces would have been visible at any distance. 
Their first massive assault of mana forced the Wizards to drop 
their invisibility in order to better protect themselves. Every 
spell thrown by the Arcanists was tinged in fiery red light. The 
air around all of them filled with a faint red haze that flared 
bright when struck by enemy spells. Arcane energy dissipated 
into the light, doing little to harm the intended targets. On the 
other side, the Washington Wizards were panicking. Their plan 
had failed to break the rival gang and instead had fueled them 
to strike with abandon. Purple lightning and blue and green 
fire were traded for shimmering white armor, electric purple 
shields, and massive yellow walls of crackling energy. 
The perfect smooth field of snow was quickly turned to a 
pockmarked mess of green patches at the center of snowy 
craters. Abby was surprised by the lack of scorching from the 
fire, not sure if it was because of the cold or some aspect of 
real magic as opposed to what she saw on the trid. From her 
distant vantage, Abby began to spot a real color gaining small 
footholds on the white scene. 
Red. 
Droplets of warm blood dripped from noses as casters 
pushed themselves past their limits. 
The scene before her was exciting, like an action trid in real 
life, but the hedge maze kept calling to her. The ganger that 
had been cast off the field had not returned. She had expected 
him to fly back onto the field of battle, healed of his injuries, 
but nothing emerged. 
Abby crept away from the edge of the bathroom building 
and back onto the park path. The sound of the raging battle 
became muffled and distant. She hadn’t even realized just 
how loud it had become while watching the scene unfold. But 
now that it was behind her and her senses were focused on 
finding the missing mage rather than catching every detail of 
the arcane duel, the cracking lightning and booming fireballs 
were a nuisance—and a rather loud one at that.
With her ears unable to catch even the slightest hint of her 
cast-off quarry, Abby relied on her eyes. The snow was still 
falling gently but had picked up in volume over the past hand-
ful of minutes, muffling sights and sounds. She wasn’t certain 
how far the ganger had been flung, but she knew he had to be 
within the square spiral, a section of hedges off the main path 
that had only one entrance and a path that turned in on itself 
at every corner. It eventually led to a small central court with 
several benches where people could sit before returning the 
same way they came. As Abby stepped off the main path, she 
noticed that no one else had traversed the snow within the 
square, in or out. It didn’t mean much, since all these mages 
seemed to be able to fly, but it was a detail her mundane brain 
picked up. 
Walking the path, she quickly noticed signs of the gang-
er’s passage. Dots of red signaled his injury before she saw 
him. Ridges in the snow had formed from the force of the wind 
generated as he passed over the hedges. Snow was cleared 
and shaken loose from the first hedges he clipped. Broken 
branches and more displaced snow showed where he hit and 
broke through a single circuit before she found his wracked 
and twisted form draped over a bench in the central square.
Abby stopped at the archway signifying the end of the spi-
raling path. From there she could see his body, long and lanky, 
sprawling from the bench he had crawled to. Blood pooled 
on the bench, melting the snow away in a river of red warmth, 
crystals of icy blood lining the banks where the escaping life 
finally succumbed to icy death. 
Despite the freezing blood, the unnatural angle at which 
his left knee bent, the jagged tears ruining the fine lines of his 
suit, and the growing layer of snow covering his splayed form, 
Abby could tell he was alive. His chest heaved slightly, and 
small huffs of cloudy breath puffed into the air. It looked to be 
a struggle for each one, but he still drew breath. 
Abby dared a step forward. She half-expected an illusion 
to drop as she passed the threshold and reveal the healed and 
healthy ganger-mage waiting for her arrival as if this had all 
been a trap for her, but her step brought nothing but the fur-
ther realization that the man before her was just that. A mortal 
man. Death was not held at bay by simple possession of the 
Talent. 
Another step, and she was close enough to see the man 
was not really much more than a boy. He may have had a year 
or two at most on her sixteen. He was no wizened wizard; he 
was a mystic mageboy. 
His head shifted slightly, eyes meeting Abby’s through the 
heavy falling snow, one bloodied and swollen but still open 
and gazing at what must seem the apparition of death in a 
diner uniform. He looked as if gathering every milligram of 
strength he had as he stretched an arm toward her. She cringed 
inside, unsure what power he was about to unleash as he died.
But nothing came. Instead the arm fell, the eyes opened 
wider as they pled for help, and Abby stepped closer. Fear cast 
aside, she saw the powerful wizard who had so recently been 
hovering in the air and hurling lightning and balls of force as 
nothing more than the teenage boy whose sense of invincibil-
ity had been shattered. 
Abby took the hand that lay outstretched, lifted it from the 
marble seat where it lay, and cupped it between her own. She 
felt fingers weakly clench before falling slack. 
She sat for several more minutes watching the lights flash 
in the sky from the direction of the fairway, holding the hand 
of the dying—or already dead—ganger the entire time. She 
didn’t know if he lived, but she didn’t know what she could do 
besides offer the scant comfort of her presence. 
The frequency of flashes decreased, and Abby felt it was 
time to go, thinking it best to not rely on the sentimentality of 
gangers for her health and well-being. She gently laid the hand 
back to the bench, placed two fingers to her lips and then his 
forehead, and slipped back out into the maze of hedges.
Not sure of the route the gangs would take, Abby returned 
the way she came. She tried to retrace her steps only to find 
her stride was longer than normal, pulling her away from the 
park. She had seen beauty and she had seen terror. And as 
was often the case in the Barrens, they had arrived in the same 
package.
>> A WALK IN THE PARK  <<    9
===== PDF PAGE IDX 10 =====
POSTED BY: GLITCH
All magic in the Sixth World is not the same. 
Shaped by the will of its wielders and the forces of 
the manasphere, the same arcane cantrip can look 
very different when slung by a chaos mage as op-
posed to spells cast by one who believes in magic 
as a psionic gift. The scientists try to place rules 
and formulae on every spell like chemical equa-
tions for mana, but that is not how everyone un-
derstands mana. The shaman believes, with every 
ounce of their being, that their power is a gift from 
their totem. They earn the power—they do not 
control it and wield it at will, they wield it because 
their mentor wills it, and their mentor favors them. 
This belief shapes their power. The same belief 
that will strip them of a gift that no hermetic ever 
fears losing as long as they have their wits. These 
differences mean that the same spell cast by two 
different spellslingers, the same spirit called up by 
two different summoners, or the same alchemical 
creation developed by different enchanters can 
have the same effects and abilities while having 
absolutely zero similarities in appearance. 
So how do we know when something is magic, 
or what kind of magic something is, without the 
ability to see the forces behind it? The truth is, we 
can’t. It’s a cold, hard truth for the mundane that 
you will never know with one hundred percent 
certainty what mojo is being slung at you. That’s 
not to say you can’t come up with a damned good 
idea of what’s going on, and that’s what this little 
JackPoint piece is going to be about. I’ve taken a 
couple of different angles with this and built up 
a thorough—though far from comprehensive—
view of magic these days, focusing on the UMT 
methods that most standard wageslaves learn, but 
calling on those with a wider viewpoint for some 
real street-slinger styles. Because in the shadows, 
most of the magic that’s learned is figured out, not 
taught in a college class. 
UNIFIED MAGICAL THEORY:  
A MUNDANE VIEW
What is  UMT? That’s a great question and of utmost 
importance when considering whether or not you may be 
witnessing arcane talents in use. Let’s start with the basics.
UMT was first proposed in the 2030s by Dr. Ava Nickson, 
Th.D. Originally met with nearly universal opposition, it took 
almost three decades and a presentation on a different 
continent to finally be accepted. Once it was accepted, it 
began leading an entire generation of Talented individuals 
into following its formulaic patterns and style. Dr. Nickson 
isn’t even the one who ended up with the bulk of the credit, 
though. That distinct honor went to two universities—one in 
Prague, the other in Boston (may it rest in peace). In Prague, 
the University of Prague, working with the University of Erfurt, 
brought the principles to Europe. The Arcane Research and 
Thaumaturgical Division of MIT&T in conjunction with (read 
that as “funded by”) Mitsuhama Computer Technologies 
brought it to North America. Their work created an alignment 
of magical theories and belief systems that bridged traditions 
and reshaped the very nature of the magic in the Sixth World. 
No matter whether your fundamental magical beliefs were 
hermetic, shamanic, Aztec, Egyptian, chaotic, or even just 
some tricks learned on the streets, magic changed. It took 
time. Those three decades I mentioned above passed, and 
in the mid-’50s through the early ’60s, when the philosophies 
worked their way into the magical schools and the cultures 
of the world, UMT slipped into the minds and views of the 
everyday Joe. This changed the face of magic in the world—
the views of mundanes made Unified Magical Theory work. 
Unified Magical Theory is about belief. But not always the 
belief you think.  
FORBIDDEN ARCANA
SEEING THE 
INVISIBLE WORLD
10    SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD >>

===== PDF PAGE IDX 11 =====
THE MAGIC  
OF MUNDANES
Welcome to the Mundane Corner! This forum is 
specifically intended for individuals born with-
out the Talent to talk about their experiences 
with magic in the real world. This is a place to 
talk about the magic you’ve seen, whether spell, 
spirit, or flaming spin kick out on the streets—or 
even at home. Remember this is all about meta-
humans, so keep the dragon sightings and para-
critter encounters to the forums where they be-
long. Try to keep your specific posts within the 
headers where they belong to keep this all nice 
and organized. Standard Matrix etiquette rules 
apply; keep it civil. You never know when the guy 
you’ve decided to flame happens to have a hack -
er pal (or be one themselves) who will work to 
make your life miserable.
SIBLING MAGIC
ARJUANGUIT241, 
TENOCHTITLAN
They say magic is in the genes, but my twin broth-
er—yes, we’re identical—is an adept, and I’m not. 
It’s not fair. He has to suffer from all the phobes, 
mana clingers, and scam artists out there. Bet you 
weren’t expecting that, were you? Being an ad-
ept was great for him, and I was jealous for all of 
about two years. They were rough. He was pop-
ular, and I was his weirdo twin who didn’t get any 
powers. There were even rumors that he had ex-
tra magic that he’d stolen from me in the womb. 
It was stupid. But then, the shine wore off and 
people started to get jealous of him, sometimes 
violently. He got into fistfights almost every day, 
and while he won most of them, it wasn’t without 
getting hurt. He transferred out of our high school 
during his sophomore year. I made it to junior 
year, but we didn’t go to the same place. He went 
to a special corporate school for adepts, spon-
sored by Aztechnology. I had to transfer to a new 
public school when our parents moved us closer 
to his corporate campus. It didn’t make it easier 
to see him. They rarely let the students leave, and 
after a while his loyalties were much more with 
corp and country than family and friends.
In the end, it was a mixed bag. He barely sur -
vived being a teenage adept, and now he works for 
a megacorp doing ghost only knows what, ghost 
only knows where, to ghost only knows who.
DOWN4MOJO2, SEATTLE
My cousin lived with us from the age of four, 
when both his parents died in a “car accident” 
that I later learned was a shadowrun gone bad. 
He was the trid-trope son of runners, born with 
magic. He had it young, too. My parents didn’t 
realize, but I knew. He could float things around 
and light small fires. Even had “imaginary” friends 
that I later figured out weren’t imaginary. 
His magic was pretty wild when he was young. 
He stared intently, wiggled his fingers, even mut-
tered rubbish when he was casting. 
Until he saw a documentary on the Hermetic 
Order of the Auric Aurora. He became obsessed, 
and that obsession focused him. His belief in mag-
ic went from wild and free with rubbish incanta-
tions to specific and focused with a right and a 
wrong way to do things. He learned certain hand 
shapes and motions to focus certain forms of en-
ergy and spent hours each day learning Latin so he 
could read old texts on magic. 
By the age of thirteen, he had serious skills, and 
he found himself sought after by several corpora-
tions. The problem was, they wanted to know his 
lineage. My parents only knew some basics about 
my aunt and uncle, but it was enough to lead them 
to the dossier the megacorp had on these former 
runners.
<< SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD    11

===== PDF PAGE IDX 12 =====
Mom was a Dog shaman, with the full-on belief 
that her power was given by Dog and her loyalty 
to her totem was the only way to keep her gifts. 
Dad was a devout Roman Catholic. He learned 
his magic as prayers to God and considered spirits 
the embodiment of the forces of good and evil. 
Neither of them was anything like their son. The 
mana didn’t care about their genes, just their belief. 
My cousin belted out Latin phrases and chants, 
posed his hands in a series of strict patterns, and 
slung mojo that could melt steel. 
 
CANUSLINGIT4ME, 
INDIANAPOLIS
My mom’s got the Gift. She runs a small magic 
shop in Indianapolis. I’ve watched her do some en-
chanting and helped prep a few poultices when I 
was a kid. I remember watching in amazement as 
she pulled together swirling threads of smoky en-
ergy that came from nowhere, bound them togeth-
er around the objects she had prepared, and then 
seemed to push them inward and trap them inside. 
I’ve never seen her sling a single spell. All of her 
magic goes into things. Things I could manage to use 
even though I don’t have a whit of magical Talent. 
I’ve met a lot of her friends, too, people who 
come into the shop and buy things from her or sell 
her materials for her work. I’ve seen them cast in 
the store, and I’ve gotten pretty good at spotting 
the “rifts,” as I call them. That spot where the mana 
changes places and goes from surrounding us as 
an unseen force on another plane to manifesting 
as some form of spell in our physical world. Most 
of the mages that come in use a basic set of rules 
for casting set forth by the various magic colleges 
using hermetic traditions as their foundation, but 
I’ve seen screamers, shamans, psions, voodoo 
priests, religious types of all sorts. Magic has a 
million mysteries. 
WIRESOVERWIZ4LIFE, 
DETROIT
I hate being mundane. I’m the only child of six 
who doesn’t have any magical abilities. My oldest 
brother is an adept. He got a job with Lone Star 
before he even left high school. He got the nick -
name Thunder growing up because every one of 
his abilities comes with a crack like thunder when 
he uses it. 
My other brother, still older, got the mixed 
thing. A mystic adept, as he tells it. He’s got some 
abilities similar to our eldest brother, though with-
out the sound effects, and he can do stuff like turn 
invisible and shoot lightning. I’m sure he knows 
other tricks, but all he talks about is how secretive 
he has to be about his talents because of the so-
ciety he joined. Sounds like a fraggin’ cult to me.
I have twin older sisters whose claim to fame is 
splitting their magic between them in the womb. 
Or so they say. One can cast spells, the other sum-
mon spirits, but neither can do both. They used to 
play that the abilities passed back and forth be-
tween them, but switching places to fool people 
all the time got old. Well, that and one of them de-
cided to actually sleep with the other’s boyfriend 
to sell the switch. That was a fun Christmas.
My last sister is the family’s pride and joy, a full 
mage. She can do it all. Well, she doesn’t have any 
adept powers, but she has plenty of spells and 
friends that help her mimic most of them, and 
she’s got a great trick that pretty much shuts both 
of my brothers off. I like that one. She got a full 
ride through Ares and now works somewhere in 
their upper ranks. She was actually the nicest to 
me growing up. When we’d play, she’d give me lit-
tle boosts here and there to make me more like my 
siblings. My parents always got excited when she 
did that, thinking I was Awakening. Then they’d 
yell at her for wasting her talents on me. 
Oh yeah, my parents are both mundane, too, 
but it made them feel like they were better than 
a lot of other people because they had magically 
talented children. Then they had me, and I burst 
their special bubble. 
My chrome does me just fine now.
CATHATER4REAL, BONE CITY
My sister is a shaman. Everything she does is re-
flective of her totem—I think that’s what she calls 
it. When she does any kind of magic, even the 
most minor tricks, her appearance shifts in some 
aspect. The smallest change is usually her eyes. 
She follows Cat (she told me it’s capitalized if I 
ever talk about it), and her eyes turn catlike (or 
Catlike?), with narrow vertical pupils, with the 
slightest magical effort. When she really tries 
hard—man, it’s crazy! She was showing off to her 
friends once, and I happened to be around when 
she used magic to make her beat-up junker look 
all yerzed out. Her eyes went into slits, but then 
this illusion(?) popped up all around her head and 
body that totally made her look like she had a cat 
head and a tail. She called it a shamanic mask and 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
12    SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 13 =====
said that only shamans who were truly devoted 
to their totems got them, and only when they re-
ally channeled their energy. 
It’s strange. Even when she casts spells and 
summons things, she makes purring and meowing 
noises. Sometimes it makes me really happy that 
I’m not magical. Until she does things that I don’t 
have a hope in the world of ever managing. Then 
I hate her. 
FEARTHEUNSEEN, BUTTE
The only thing my brother can do is view the as-
tral plane, but it’s still so cool to think about. He’s 
tried to explain what it looks like, but I just didn’t 
understand. Then he introduced me to a friend of 
his who knows a spell to make the astral visible, 
like creating a window where mundane folks like 
me can look into the astral plane. I was jealous 
of my brother until then. When the guy cast the 
spell and I saw all the dark spots and veins run-
ning through people, I was appalled. I could see 
spirits all around. They were everywhere. I don’t 
think I could live knowing how much activity is 
going on around me, unseen by me—or if I could 
see it, knowing how much is going on that I can 
see. It’s scary either way, but at least now I can 
pretend it isn’t going on. 
NOSPELLSHERE, RALEIGH
My dad is a conjurer and has, for years, been 
trying to teach me how to conjure spirits, even 
though I was tested and don’t have a lick of magi-
cal talent in my body. He’s convinced anyone can 
do it, like magic in the dark ages and throughout 
history was just people who had enough will and 
the right formulas to make it happen. I keep try -
ing, not because I think it will work, but because, 
first off, it lets me connect with my dad, but also 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD    13
===== PDF PAGE IDX 14 =====
because watching him do it is so interesting. He 
uses a lot of stuff to make his magic work. In-
cense, candles, powders, chalks, feathers, sound 
machines, instruments, and the occasional pile of 
dirt. He chants when he’s summoning and when 
he talks to the spirits, it’s always in Latin because 
that’s the language the spirits he calls understand. 
LOSTCHILD708, PALOS HILLS
Sorry, this might get long. I’ve seen a lot of mag-
ic. My parents are both instructors at ArcanArts. 
Yeah, I know it’s a magic tutor corp scam and tons 
of parents send their mundos in, but a lot of actu-
ally talented kids have come through. My parents 
screen them all early on, and they tailor the pro-
gram to each kid, trying to find the certain focus, 
activity, or style that’s most likely to help ignite the 
spark. Man, I sound like the ads, but it was true 
with my parents, they cared a lot more about that 
place than they ever cared about me. Sorry, sob 
story done. The Magic. Top five most interesting.
Billy Rhodes loved sports. He dreamed of be-
ing an adept. It was the only thing he wanted to 
be. He didn’t care about spells or spirits, he want-
ed to run, hit, and jump, faster, harder, and farther 
than anyone else. His focus was so intense that he 
mistook his real gifts for the abilities of an adept 
early on. My parents knew better but in order to 
get him to practice and push himself they let him 
continue to think and perform his magic in ways 
that seemed adept-like, but were in truth, cast and 
sustained spells. 
Billy did focusing mantras before running 
jumps, used the hisses and shouts of martial arts 
to focus, and did extensive stretching motions, all 
as a means to boost his natural talent in different 
fields, but none of it was permanently ingrained, 
as are the gifts of an adept. After each use he 
would feel the wear and tear of the exercises. The 
harder he performed, the more it hurt. It all made 
sense most of the time—work out hard, get sore—
but even when he would perform singular acts to 
show off, he was getting tired. Drain, as my par -
ents called it. 
Now, when he does little things, things that stay 
within the realm of normal expectations for a hu-
man boy, his magic is barely noticeable. But, when 
he does stuff that no one should be able to do, like 
hurdle a two-meter fence or make a punching bag 
explode, that’s when you can see the magic. The 
world around him almost seems to waver, like heat 
waves over a hot summer street, or his punches 
actually create light when they hit. The best was a 
standing jump I saw him take where he left a trail, 
like a retro AR mouse cursor or an anime trid. 
Next up, Emily Bhutan. She sent everyone run-
ning for the street on her first day when she lit a 
wall of papers on fire. Not by accident. She came 
in knowing she was gifted but hiding it from her 
parents. She wasn’t the most pleasant little girl to 
look at, and a few of the older kids, who were still 
hoping for a magical miracle but filled with hate 
and anger for themselves for failing, made them-
selves feel better by picking on Emily. Bhutan is an 
easy name for even the dim to mock. She lashed 
out, her entire body wreathed in hazy white flames 
an instant before she cast gouts of orange fire at 
her tormentors. She hit the board behind them (I 
think intentionally), and the place cleared out fast. 
My parents let her come back, but she only lasted 
about two weeks before she got picked up by a 
mega. Once real Talent was discovered, it usually 
didn’t hang out in ArcanArts for long.
Derrick Byrd didn’t like me because I was the 
child of the teachers, and he somehow thought that 
meant I got special treatment. We’ve been over how 
they treated me, so we’ll let that lie. Instead we’ll 
focus on the purple-and-black energy that swirled 
around Derrick’s fingers as he cast spells. Sometimes 
it was just wispy threads, barely noticeable; other 
times it was massive swirls that he seemed to shape 
before releasing them out into the world. The energy 
didn’t usually travel far—most of the time it just dissi-
pated into the ether once it left his reach, but it was 
always cool to watch, whether he liked me or not.
Ignatius Pasdenelli spent way too much time 
reading fantasy novels. He took all that belief in 
magic (with the help of my parents who thought it 
was a good focus) and formed his own style and 
method. He turned out to be one of those mystic 
adepts, as they call them in the texts. He used this 
inner-void mental-focus thing to “power” the abil-
ities he channeled within, and then cast his spells 
like a blade-slinging wizard, complete with Elvish 
incantations (and I mean Tolkien Elvish, not Spere-
thiel). Power made his hair flare, his cloak billow, 
and his eyes occasionally glow when he cast. The 
power of the mind to create delusions and shape 
them into power with access to mana is a field I 
think I should study further, what with all my expe-
riences in my younger days. 
Scott Hyvinson couldn’t cast, summon, or 
channel mana into himself worth a lick, but he was 
able to sit in class, shape modeling clay into lit-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
14    SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 15 =====
tle people, and infuse them with a little mana so 
they’d walk around and do funny things. He was 
an outcast when I was young—no one was huge 
into the enchanting concept yet because mass 
reagent manufacture hadn’t become the lucrative 
business it is now. My parents pushed Scott to try 
to use the gift from a distance to animate the clay 
but it never took. He became disheartened, as did 
his parents, and Scott left ArcanArts. We kept in 
touch, and I’ve sat and watched him shape that 
same boring clay into flat discs that can heal cuts, 
rolled up balls that explode, and pieces of clay that 
he could hand to people to make them forget he 
was even around. Last time I talked to him, he was 
actually sculpting a replica of Michelangelo’s Da-
vid to see if he could animate it. 
Meegan Foster had more invisible friends than 
any other kid that ever came to ArcanArts. They 
were only invisible to me, but you get the point. 
She summoned them by singing Gaelic folk tales 
that her grandmother, an exile from Tír na nÓg, 
taught her. It was beautiful to hear her sing. A lit-
tle eerie—creepy if you were the only one around, 
and there was always a slight shrillness to it—but 
still, the girl had an amazing voice. The fact that it 
called beings to our plane is just another aspect of 
her musical talent. 
This was all before UMT became all the rage. 
Now, the ArcanArts studios use tested, tried, and 
true UMT techniques to pump out more wagemag-
es each week than they used to manage in a month. 
SHADOWRUNNER 
ENCOUNTERS
HOTSOUTHERNNIGHT, ATLANTA
I was sitting in a café across the street from the 
Ares offices in Atlanta when all hell came flying 
out the front door. I saw this massive troll car -
rying something that looked like one of those 
DocWagon stabilization units. He had it up on 
one shoulder while he hoisted a massive gun in 
his other hand. Anyway, that’s not the magic. Not 
exactly. I know trolls are strong, but those units 
are supposed to weigh a metric fragton, literally. 
Three more armored-up runner types came out 
close behind, but they weren’t the magic, either. 
The mage was actually the guy sitting next to 
me, sweating bullets. I thought at first that it was 
because of the heat, but the real reason was that 
he was sustaining some serious mojo. The troll ran 
full tilt toward a roach coach—one of those food 
trucks—at the curb when the thing shimmered and 
shifted into a straight-up trid-real, black runner 
van, complete with a mini gun that opened up on 
the front of the HQ. The mage stood up and start-
ed walking toward the drama, unlike everyone 
else who was ducking for cover, standing around 
like a dunce (me), or running like hell. He did this 
little flick of his wrist and the air around him shook 
(that’s the best way to describe it) and then co-
alesced into a field of blue lightning. By day the 
field was visible, though barely in open sun, but by 
night it would have been quite the spectacle. The 
troll made the van, dropped the giant pod inside, 
and then started taking chunks out of the side of 
the building with the cannon he carried. 
The mage yelled something, and the troll 
switched up his grip to two hands as I watched 
a white streak of arcane energy slide off him and 
snap back to the mage. The troll went from gar -
gantuan to simply massive in an instant. The mage 
jumped in the back of the van, and the shimmer -
ing blue field dropped off. I was totally focused on 
him as he drew his hands together in a little swirl-
ing motion in front of his face and then blew out-
ward. I remembered seeing a wispy white cloud 
blow out from his hands before I blacked out.
When I woke, they were gone, Knight-Errant 
was questioning witnesses, Ares had a full AR 
screen up along with some of their own spellsling-
ers recreating the façade, and everyone around 
was waking up from a serious sleep spell.
It was like a trid, but real.
PUGETOLDTIMER, SEATTLE
I worked at a sec company for almost twenty 
years, through plenty of magical discoveries, and 
I can count the number of times I encountered 
magic on one hand. It’s memorable, but it doesn’t 
happen every day.
Top moment:
I was working the dock gate for a private con-
tract in Fort Lewis. A delivery van pulled up, and I 
stepped out to check credentials. Paperwork said 
the driver was human, average Joe type. As the 
window rolled down, I found myself staring at an 
ork, cyber-eyes gleaming, bulky body armor way 
out of standard for the delivery company, and no 
chance of talking his way past me. 
Out leaned this slender elf woman from the 
back. She told me he was the new driver and there 
was no need to confirm it with anyone. Told me to 
just let us roll by. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD    15
===== PDF PAGE IDX 16 =====
I saw the world wobble around her, and I knew 
to the depths of my being she was lying, and letting 
them through was the wrong move, but I let him 
go right through because no matter what I thought, 
she was right. 
Investigations go on afterwards and they told 
me it was some sort of spell. I certainly didn’t think 
it was anything else but it felt totally natural to just 
believe her. It’d be scarier if it weren’t so rare.
MILESABOVEYOU, DENVER
I’m not sure it was magic, but I’ll describe what I 
saw as best I can, and you guys tell me.
I was inside the Rock Shop in Denver’s UCAS 
sector. It was packed that night, and I was there 
trying to have a good time. DJ Carbon was spin-
ning, drinks were flowing, and the dance floor was 
one massive grinding mass. It was a great spot to 
slide into the crowd, get a little grind on, and strike 
up an AR dialogue. The problem was, by the time 
I went to slide out into the crowd it was all sau-
sage. The ladies were all clustered at the center 
around this elf who looked like something out of a 
bad Outlaw Murder Hobos trideo. He wasn’t even 
grinding his gears. He had like a meter around him 
with nothing, and then a nice clear look at all the 
fine ladies dancing up a storm. 
I was watching close at this point, but from a 
distance as I had no desire to push through the 
meat market, and every few moments I swore 
I saw a little thread of smoke zip from the danc-
ing clown to a lady walking through the door. Ev -
ery time it happened, the chick ditched her man, 
ground her way through the man mass, and joined 
the center cluster. 
That’s part one. Part two was happening at the 
back line of ladies. They had a crowd of guys slid-
ing up for a groove and grind, but every time the 
guys slid up, they almost made contact and then 
slid off to move back into the crowd and start the 
cycle of pushing to the front again. 
Guys around the rim were pissed, there was 
a bunch griping about the clown, but every one 
that hopped out on the dance floor just joined the 
crowd of crashing waves. It was fragging nuts.
Magic?
TOUGHTEXAN,  
DALLAS/FORT WORTH
The worst place to be when runners come rolling 
through the door is between them and their in-
tended paydata. I was working as a receptionist 
at a corp office tower—I’ll keep the details to my -
self—when this guy just walks right into the turn-
stiles like he’s going to get right through. I look 
up and it’s Mr. Collins, one of our junior execu-
tives, but he’s dressed different than Mr. Collins 
usually does and Mr. Collins had already passed 
the security station an hour earlier to head up to 
his office. Normally I would have referred him to 
the security officers I work with, but they were off 
dealing with some unruly ork ganger who decid-
ed today was the day to make his way into cor -
porate life. 
It was all a setup. 
The guy who came at me, who I’ll call Faux Col-
lins, just slides out of the turnstile and sidles up to 
the desk. The ork has everyone else in the room 
looking at the ruckus while this guy lines up on 
me and feeds me the lamest line about his gym 
bag getting left at home. I’m ready to hold him 
and just wait on the security guys when he smiles, 
cocks his head slightly to the side, and tells me it’s 
a one-time thing and will never happen again. I let 
him through. I even do a quick check-out/check-in 
mock-up for him to make it all legit. 
Mr. Collins was sitting in his office the entire 
time. Faux Collins was a runner with some subtle 
mojo that had me doing everything I was trained 
not to do and even helping cover the whole thing 
up. All while his pal, the ork, kept the attention of 
my co-workers. 
When I think back, I can tell there was a little 
something off in his head cock and the smile, al-
most like it was more ritual than real. Needless to 
say Mr. Collins was extracted, and I ended up get-
ting transferred over to manufacturing while my 
two pals from security got demoted to correction-
al services. 
LAW ENFORCEMENT  
AND SECURITY
SEEINGISBELIEVING,  
ST. LOUIS
My sister got kidnapped when we were younger. 
My dad had serious clout with the corp, and they 
put a mage on the case. He was the first spell-
caster I’d ever met; I was only twelve and a corp 
kid through and through. “Sheltered” was an un-
derstatement. Anyway, this mage showed up and 
trashed all the stereotypes I’d seen on the trid. No 
mystical jacket, no bones, no magical accoutre-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
16    SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 17 =====
ments at all. He wore a suit like the other detec-
tives, had a perpetual cop grimace, and when it 
came time to sling mojo, he wasn’t loud and big 
with all his motions and incantations. 
He checked my sister’s room and asked my 
parents a couple of questions, then went into her 
room again. He didn’t like what he found because 
he came out and asked me what her favorite thing 
was. I told him, though it was way more person-
al than my parents would have known about. My 
room shared a wall, and I could always hear her. 
Still got scars to this day.
He went back in and had a bunch of her furni-
ture taken out of the room. He had her bed moved 
to the center of the room and then set up candles 
and incense while marking her floor with powders 
and chalk. He didn’t make a big ritual out of it. No 
chanting, no dim lights, no dancing, nothing but 
walking the room and doing things like he was 
setting the table for dinner or any other mundane 
task. When he was done he laid on the bed for 
about an hour. 
Things were frantic afterward, because he’d 
found her while she was being subjected to a rit-
ual of some kind that would have ended with her 
sacrifice. He issued directions while stumbling 
from exhaustion. I was panicked, but the adults 
took over. By the next morning her room was back 
to normal and she was sleeping off the traumatic 
event.
   
FORROSA, AMARILLO
I don’t mess with the police. When they ask me 
to do something, I do it. Not because it’s my civic 
duty, but because I know that if I don’t, they have 
every right to stomp me until I follow their com-
mands, or physically can’t move. And sometimes 
they keep stomping you even then. The prob-
lem is, there are some people who don’t change 
their ways, no matter how often you stomp them, 
or who are just too big to stomp. To gain obedi-
ence with these types, our local Lone Star pre-
cinct brings out Mikey. Mikey, a.k.a. Officer Abra-
ham Michaels, isn’t the most talented spellslinger 
around, but he knows a lot about spells that affect 
people’s minds. Around the neighborhood they 
call him the “perp whisperer.” Whenever there’s 
a disturbance, Mikey comes along, has a conver -
sation with the angry citizen in question, and off 
they go, quietly, with the authorities.
I can’t see auras or any of that, but I see whatev-
er mojo Mikey is using. Whenever he starts to talk, 
I can see this wispy smoke seem to reach out and 
wrap around the head of the person he’s talking to. 
Others can see it too, not just me, so it must be the 
spell. When he talks slow, the spell seems to slow-
ly build up around the other person, but it can hap-
pen fast. I remember seeing Mikey arrive while Gil 
Two-Ravens was in the middle of hoisting an offi-
cer in the air by the neck. Mikey just yelled “Stop!”, 
the wispy whiteness flashed out at Gil’s head, and 
he just set the cop down. The cop yanked out his 
baton and pulled his arm back for a big swing, and 
Mikey did it again. Just yelled, and the white bolt 
hit the cop. The two were both standing there in 
front of each other for a few minutes while Mikey 
took a seat on a nearby park bench and dealt with 
the bloody nose he must have got from slinging so 
much mojo so fast.  
LOSTINTHEMIX, SEATTLE
My sainthood ain’t never getting granted. I spent 
four years doing time at the Kick—Killingsworth 
Corporate Incarceration Complex—up in Seattle. 
They don’t use mages very often, too costly, but 
when they did it was a show and a half. Two big-
gest reasons they brought them in was to bring 
down another of their kind or to search entire cell 
blocks for weapons in massive sweeps.
The sweeps were pretty standard fare, tim-
ing-wise, and all the inmates knew to get the tools 
off the block ahead of time, but occasionally they’d 
catch a guppy who didn’t know better or lacked 
friends. We’d all go into lockdown, and the guards 
would bring in the black coat. They all wore long 
black coats and all black clothes. Maybe to look 
intimidating, maybe to stick out in a riot, I dun-
no, but the black coat would take a spot near the 
center of the block and start chanting. Never loud 
enough to understand, more of a mutter. He’d get 
into a rhythm and then the “smoke” formed, white 
tendrils that whipped out across the whole block. 
It slipped through every cell and all the inmates. 
I always felt a chill, but some guys said they felt 
nothing. A lot of them slept through it.
Just so you know, there are criminals who ei-
ther: A) actually have magic and manage to hide 
it; or B) Awaken in the joint. It’s a high-stress envi-
ronment, and a lot of guys there that are really just 
kids. Once the black coats find them, though, they 
take them off the block. I’ve never seen one come 
back. Probably recruiting, since everyone thinks 
they’re so valuable, but I’m sure a few get the brain 
scrambler or “nuyen solution.”
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD    17
===== PDF PAGE IDX 18 =====
TRID AND STAGE
MAGEMUSE9000, ATLANTA
I went to see Elfstrike in Atlanta and they use a lot 
of spellcasting in their shows. The casting itself is 
often as much a part of the show as the actual ef-
fect—probably more. All of them use Sperethiel, 
but the actual chants aren’t some ancient code or 
text. Most of it is just their lyrics. 
“I’ll bring the winds of fate to bear” creates a 
swirling tornado effect on stage. The words are 
the focus, but the flapping of Gallowglee’s black 
mane occurs before the wind ever picks up.
“‘Til sight is no more mine to bear the burden of 
your stare” strikes fans blind across a swath of the 
audience. Those affected, and everyone else, see 
a flash of white light from Arinscar. The blinded are 
blind; the rest recover from the glare quickly. It’s all 
part of the show. 
WESTCOASTWILLS, 
HOLLYWOOD
The set crew for The Scrolls of Elfwind  get to see 
real magic all the time. The show uses real mag-
es for the effects instead of CGI or pyrotechnics. 
They get slammed for their lack of realism a lot, 
but that’s the problem with real magic—it’s not 
the same as the stuff they show on the trid in ev -
ery other show. I loved me some Sukie Redflow -
er when I was ten. The show made magic seem 
awesome. It was obvious when they wanted 
flash, but she could hide even the most powerful 
of castings. 
On 
Scrolls, every spell can be seen being cast. 
It’s true to life. Spells are pulling power to our 
plane from another, and when it comes through it 
leaks a little—or a lot. 
CORPORATE USAGE
JANE DOE,  
PYRAMID ARCANE SUPPLIES
I love reading all these exciting magic posts, but 
that’s not life inside the corps. I’ve seen real mag-
ic, lots of it, but it’s not exactly flashy. Most of 
the corp mages I know do boring stuff, like au-
dits and inventories. They summon spirits for the 
company to use on security. They work basic se-
curity gigs running weapon checks over swaths 
of guests visiting the arcology. Now, I hear every-
one talking about how rare the Talent is and how 
these people are worth more because they’re 
rare, but they’re not once you’re in a megacorpo-
ration. We gather them up and concentrate them 
in our population. Sure, maybe well under one 
percent of the world’s population are born with 
some kind of magical potential, but once you 
focus inside the corps, where they identify and 
exploit every possible arcane resource that pops 
up its head, that number goes up. The megacorps 
have more Talent than the rest of the world, and 
they use it all. 
Don’t believe me? Here are a few examples I’ve 
run across in my boring everyday corp life. 
I’ve seen an executive pop into the bathroom 
for a little social boost from their staff mage. A few 
waves of the hands and flashes of light later, and 
the exec’s teeth are gleaming, his hair is perfect, 
and suddenly there’s just something about him 
that makes you want to like the guy. Even if most 
of the time you think he’s a complete fragbag. 
I know that the warehousing department puts 
in special requests around inventory time to get a 
few specially trained mages down into the ware-
house to help get through the counts fast. The 
mages block off sections that must pertain to the 
limit of their ability and then sit at the center. They 
mumble a few words, lift up their datapad or log 
in their trodes and begin magically counting every-
thing around them. The ones I’ve seen create a sort 
of haze in the air around the objects to be count-
ed as the spell progresses. Larger areas, or more 
dense counts, usually push the haze all the way to 
the point of fog. I have to say it isn’t always about 
saving time. The worst is when they do this not to 
count the items in the first place but to audit the 
counts performed by the mundane employees. 
I know an executive who has a personal mage. 
He gets a little reflex boost in the locker room be-
fore he goes out to compete against his fellow ex-
ecutives. They use the locker room because the 
casting process looks like a white fire cascading 
over his body that gets drawn inside or seeps into 
his skin. It would be really obvious to do it mid-
game, so the mage has to sustain it the whole time. 
Then there’s the obvious healing spells. I’ve 
seen those all over the place. Everything from 
closing a cut with a little glow, to repairing a bro-
ken bone or large injury in a blinding flash. Simi-
lar, but different, are the executives who use the 
corp’s mages to detox them after a hard night of 
drinking and partying. Depending on just how 
much fun the exec had the night before, the pro-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
18    SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 19 =====
cess can look like everything from cold-weather 
steam breath to their whole body smoking and 
steaming. 
I’ve seen the scary parts, too, like the corporate 
lie detectors. The mages who sit in the room be-
hind you while someone from personnel asks you 
questions. You don’t know how they are commu-
nicating with the questioners, but you can feel and 
see the line of energy that is wreathing your head 
and sliding through your brain with every ques-
tion, scanning for any hint of falsity. 
My division has a high-security wing that is 
staffed solely by spirits. The corp mages summon 
them and set them to work on whatever assign-
ments we have. It’s strange, but it means theft is 
unheard of, the turnover rate doesn’t matter, and 
none of them are a concern for security breaches, 
because when they’re done they just get released 
back to their regular home metaplane. 
We get a lot of security scans, too. Mages 
come along, most of them chant some form of in-
cantation, and then splash us with white light. I’ve 
been told it’s a security scan for weapons, danger-
ous chemicals, or explosives on our person, but as 
I’ve never tried to bring any of those three into a 
meeting where they are using these guys to scan, 
it could all just be one giant show. 
I see magic often enough to know when it’s 
being cast. Most of the mages have similar incan-
tations, as do the shamans, and many of the sha-
mans get what they call a “shamanic mask,” which 
is basically an illusory image that resembles their 
totem, appearing over their head when they cast. 
I’ve never seen a completely invisible spell. 
I know a few mages who do everything without 
the pomp and circumstance of hand-waving and 
incantations, but then they get lights, sounds, 
smells, and other visual effects. Hide-able, yes, but 
still detectable.
> It’s things like this that make working against megacorps 
fraggin’ scary. I’ve never even thought about the math, 
but she’s probably right. They cultivate arcane talent, and 
with that concentration they definitely boost the risk.
> Mika
> I’ve seen enough extractions of magical assets to know 
that corps target one another’s mages. “Geek the mage” 
is often replaced with “sleep the mage, ” and runner teams 
have been known to gather opposing mana-wielders in 
order to sell them off to the highest bidder. 
> Thorn
THE MAGIC SHOW
> Time to talk about spotting mojo when you aren’t a 
slinger yourself. I pulled the starter over from a MagickNet 
blogger who seems to have a clue, but my expectation is 
for our Awakened members to pop in with their views and 
opinions. 
> Glitch
> The blogger should have a clue. He’s a veteran face that 
runs the East Coast shadows under the name C.J. He’s 
well-known for working with low-magic teams against 
high-magic targets. 
> Icarus
I hate to say it, omae, but no matter how many 
times you wish upon a star, order that at-home 
gene therapy program, or visit the local alchera, 
you aren’t going to be slinging spells, summoning 
spirits, or running on walls in this lifetime. If you 
don’t have the Talent, you don’t have the Talent. 
But that doesn’t mean you need to fear the Tal-
ent. What you need to do is understand it, learning 
how to identify its use and counter it with mun-
dane means.
Today we’re going to focus on identifying it. 
First off, it’s not always like the trids. But it can be. 
Magic is shaped by the will of its wielder, not by 
some mysterious series of arcane rules. There are 
a few general principles we’ll need to cover, but let 
me repeat that crucial point: Magic is shaped by 
the man, not the mana. 
Principle #1: The shifting of mana from the as-
tral to the physical plane is always detectable. It’s 
energy, and while you may lack the precise mental 
software to see this particular kind of energy, you 
can use the subtle or not-so-subtle shifts it creates 
on our plane to spot it. I equate this to the “seeing” 
of black holes. Even if you can’t see it because light 
doesn’t escape, you see the effects it has on the 
space around it. 
> True, but avoidable, and in the heat of battle, who can 
tell the difference between cordite smoke and the haze 
created by a spell being cast?
> Haze
> Hey, the point here is to help, not nitpick, bitch, or boast. 
Get helpful.
> Bull
Mana is greatly affected by the efforts of the 
caster and their mindset, but no one has yet mas-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD    19
===== PDF PAGE IDX 20 =====
tered the mindset of the perfect manashift. Even 
when channeling small quantities, it’s still like 
opening a floodgate to fill a few cubic centimeters 
of a test tube. You’ll fill it, but spillage will result. 
That spillage is the physical manifestation of the 
casting, not the spell, that’s the fireball, bent light, 
sticky hands, etc. We’re talking solely about open-
ing the door to give you something to shape. 
> That’s well put. It also explains why often the little 
sideshows that pop up from our casting don’t care about 
our mental paradigm. It’s mana spilling over that shapes 
itself by its own rules, not necessarily our world views.
> Arete
Principle #2: The more mana that’s shifted, the 
greater effect it has on the physical plane at the 
time of casting. Using our floodgate analogy, the 
more you pull through fast, the wider you need to 
open the gates to fill it at a fast rate. That means 
you get a greater volume of spillage.
When someone tries to pull across enough 
mana to throw deadly lightning or fire, or weave a 
large enough illusion to cover a van, they need to 
draw a lot of mana, but they don’t change the rate 
of the draw. The “adverse manifestation,” a term 
coined by Dr. Andrew Bollman, Th.D.,  is direct-
ly proportional to mana quantity required to fuel 
the spell, mitigated by the aptitude of the caster. 
Those who have trained and understood the prin-
ciples of manashift involved in powering spells are 
better able to control their draw. 
> This part is where the shamanic mask comes in as a 
merged belief of the caster and the general population as 
influenced by the media. Powerful shamans are expected 
to manifest this totemic overlay and thus, in many cases, 
the overflow of mana manifests in that form. 
> Lyran
Principle #3: The manifestation of mana in the 
form of spells, the abilities of adepts, the forms of 
spirits, or the appearance of alchemical prepara-
tions does not obey a single paradigm of sensory 
characteristics. No matter how much UMT anyone 
forces into the world, mana will always be free 
to take on other forms, because it is a substance 
shaped by belief and, in some fashion, imagina-
tion.
I offer you Arien Neal. Blind since birth, Arien 
has no concept of what fire or lightning look like, 
yet he has learned to cast spells that allow him to 
control these forces. Not blind to the astral, Arien 
was only able to study the shaping of the mana 
and not the actual physical appearance. When 
cast, Arien’s fire and lightning spells are both 
black, because it is the only thing he knows. The 
black fire still burns and the black electricity still 
shorts things out. Others who have tried to mimic 
this effect, based on studying Arien’s spellcasting, 
have had no luck recreating the effect. It’s not to-
tally unique; there are others who cast their fires 
in other shades, as well as their lightning, but his 
blindness makes his forms unique. 
Sight is not the only sense. Scents related to 
some individuals’ spells are different based on 
their own sculpting and belief. The same with 
sounds and even taste.
> The taste part is especially key for enchanters. Creating 
potions intended to be ingested, it’s good to have 
someone who believes that taste is important. Too often 
the belief is that potions are intended to taste unpleasant, 
so the spell creates an unpleasant taste. 
> Ethernaut
> Smelling a spell being cast is a strange thought, but I 
know it can be done. The mana coming through takes 
on aspects from every sense, even smell, so it is quite 
possible to smell a spell. My sleep spell actually smells 
like chamomile tea. I never really noticed, but a chummer 
pointed it out on a job once; he and I notice it every time 
now.
> Lyran
Principle #4: All magic does have a few im-
mutable rules. 
A. Line of sight: A spellcaster needs to be able 
to see the target of their spell. If they can see you, 
you can usually see them. I understand there are 
ways to avoid detection, but this piece is intend-
ed to inform, not quibble about the exceptions. 
I will mention, though, that magical wards can 
make seeing the target tougher, as with standard 
barriers such as walls. Natural earth is nearly im-
possible—entities in astral space can’t even pass 
through it. 
B. Concentration: To hold onto spells that are 
sustained, casters need to concentrate. Signs of in-
tense concentration can be a clue to magical activ-
ity. Many spells don’t have this issue, but almost all 
of the stealthy and mentally manipulative ones do. 
C. Magic is physically taxing: Whether it’s a 
tiny spell to move a box or a large one cast while 
riding in a crashing plane with a caged lion in an 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
20    SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 21 =====
effort to stay invisible, spells have a cost to them. 
Signs of exhaustion are a key clue to look for when 
seeking the source of spellcraft. 
> Once the spell is cast and in place, detecting it is outside 
the capabilities of mundanes without manatech. There 
are a few small exceptions, and I guess this is the place 
to put those. 
Extremely powerful spells draw a lot of mana across 
the threshold—enough so that they affect the physical 
plane just by their very existence. A chummer named 
Dozer wanted to show off and whipped up an invisibility 
spell that, as he put it, “channeled so much mana that even 
a dragon wouldn’t see him. ” Don’t worry, I already pointed 
out the whole dual-natured thing. The point was, he really 
did drag through some serious mana. The problem is the 
spell left a trail of warped space all around him as it bled 
mana from the astral. Sure, my eyes got fooled in terms 
of seeing him, but I hit him with random objects several 
times because I could hit the center of the wavy rift that 
had formed. There’s a fine line in magic as to where you 
cast; often, if you use enough mana to fuel your spell, you 
start to overbleed mana from the astral.
> Haze 
> That’s the whole essay. Not terribly long, but with enough 
info to wet your lips and use as a general primer for this 
next open-air session. Awakened members, please help 
with constructive comments. Explain your magic, what 
casting or summoning looks like, or just give us some 
insight from a school of magic you know. 
> Glitch
> Let me start out this little dog-and-pony show so that we 
of the rarefied nature and heightened talent can tell all the 
shlubs, mundos, and groggies just how to see real magic. 
Oh wait, how fraggin’ stupid is that?! Hit the streets and 
figure it out. You get burned by someone throwing fire 
and you don’t see a napalm tank, it’s magic! Suddenly 
find yourself doing things you wouldn’t normally do for 
a pudgy guy with a pendant fetish (and I don’t mean the 
magical kind), it’s magic! Seriously, I’ll be elsewhere. This 
is a waste of all our time. 
> Five Card
> Dissenting opinions are allowed. But as a point of 
education, JackPoint is still all about spreading info to 
others in the shadow community. Not everyone has this 
rare skill, so we help others understand them. Plus, the 
more people understand that magic is not what they 
see in the trids, the faster “Geek the mage!” becomes 
a piece of history and we stop culling an aspect of our 
metahumanity purely out of fear and jealousy. 
> Glitch
> There are many reasons why I, and others like me, do 
not spend our time tempting fate with acts of exciting 
daredevilry. The gift of Seeing is one of the least common 
among all the Talented. The hard truth is that too many 
fear knowing. They fear seeing their final day and living 
in dread. I know my day. I have known the day of many of 
my fellows. I have changed both. That is magic. 
Time is fluid. We see a path, not the path. We can 
redirect, but great wisdom is needed, for we know well 
that we could be the architects of our own divination. 
How does it look? I sit, I meditate. Others have told me 
the world around me fills with a haze, but I do not see that. 
I see the next day, the next week, the next year, the next 
millennium. The power surrounding me warps the lodge 
where I work. It twists the items of my tradition and leaves 
behind reminders of my visions. 
The few parlor tricks I can manage are taught through 
my tradition. The trappings of the shaman are mine, but 
not the shamans of the NAN. Runes, stones, and crystals 
that are focused with Gaelic chants pull power across the 
Veil. 
How was that for cryptic to freak out the mundanes 
checking this out? We aren’t all freaks. I really do use 
all those things, but don’t think of it like I’m some old-
world anachronism who can’t live in the modern day. 
My commlink is top of the line, and I’m up on most of 
the latest innovations in magic. Especially in divination. 
Listen to the guy who wrote the above, and perhaps listen 
a little to Five Card. Learn from everything. Look for the 
magic, or the tech masquerading as magic. 
> Arete
> Well, that was more dickish than usual, Arete. What gives?
> Slamm-0!
> In need of a little entertainment as I get older. Amusing 
myself is often my only course of action.
> Arete 
 
> I learned much of what I know in a formal setting. But 
I learned far more on the streets. Magic is not static. 
The UMT is no different than my own learnings, and 
the appearance of magic isn’t going to change by any 
great degree just because you learned it a different 
way. Honestly, the blogger’s term manableed and the 
relationship between the power of one’s channelings and 
the level of skill with which they perform their arcane acts 
are the best gauges for identifying magic in use. 
Reckless or unskilled magicians (along with all other 
aspects of the Awakened) produce blatant phenomena 
when they channel mana. Yes, there may be a difference in 
the color of the lights or smoke, and one may flare flames 
while the other crackles with lightning, and a third becomes 
swirled in darkness, but fundamentally, they’re the same. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD    21
===== PDF PAGE IDX 22 =====
Channel mana without control, and mana makes itself 
known regardless of your desires for stealth or subtlety.
> Axis Mundi
> Fire-Bringer provides my gift, and his essence infuses 
all of my powers. From the smallest trickle of mana to 
the purifying fires, everything brings over a little of Fire-
Bringer’s essence. A small aura of flame around my hands 
as I heal; the flash of fire around my head as I seek out 
enemies; the fire that cascades across the targets and 
then seeps into their bodies when I make them faster; all 
of my spells have an element of fire. 
I’ve been told by many others that this isn’t necessary, 
that it’s my beliefs that make it happen. My counter-
argument is that it is also my beliefs that make the magic 
happen, so how could I have one without the other? I 
know others learn a way to practice magic that is ferreted 
from formulae and books, but my magic is granted to me 
by Fire-Bringer. The ire of Fire-Bringer means I lose my 
connection.
Others will argue that there is no external punishment; 
instead, I’m punishing and limiting myself when the 
connection is lost. Their beliefs are theirs, mine are mine, 
and the power of Fire-Bringer is hard to disbelieve when I 
call fire from the sky. 
My power is pure and comes from a place on the 
metaplanes they do not touch with their formulae. The 
taint that their spells and spirits leave behind on our plane 
is evidence enough that their magic is a sad theft of the 
gifts provided by the entities we shamans call totems. 
> Ecotope
> I love you Eco, but I’m not touching this with a ten-meter 
stick. Let’s boil this down to a useful insight: If you see 
someone wreathed in flame, it might be magic. 
> Slamm-0! 
> The sad truth is that most magic, you will never see 
coming. My spells can be cast with a minimal of physical 
effort, and as long as I control the flow of the mana I am 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
22    SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 23 =====
using and avoid letting it slip from my control, no one 
sees my spells. I use a mental script based on formulae 
from proprietary research from my days at MCT that I’ve 
expanded with my own research. I don’t create a haze, 
smoke, fire, electrical energy, or any other blatant sign 
that something arcane is going on. 
Neither does MCT , for that matter. Keep that in mind. 
They train their mages to avoid that. They teach that 
magic is simply a science to be understood and then 
manipulated with formulae by those who have access to 
its power. 
My lesson here is that you simply need to accept 
magic as being there and part of what is going on in 
our world. You don’t seek to understand how pulling the 
trigger makes the gun work—you just know that guns are 
bad news, and there’s a good chance you may run into 
one someday. If you see someone who has a gun who 
isn’t using it, or who is holding it in a way that makes it 
look like a decoration, you may have spotted the mage, or 
the decker, or the face. Or a street sammie who loves to 
quickdraw, so they don’t keep the weapon in hand. 
Believe in magic. That’s my advice.
> Ethernaut 
> Wires make most sammies as fast as the bullets flying at 
them. Teach them to spot the signs, and most mages won’t 
get halfway through two finger-gestures and the slightest 
flicker of something before they put two in the chest and 
one in the head. When you work at bullet speeds, magic 
mutterings just don’t keep pace.
> Jimmy No
> Ethernaut makes a good point. Some mages don’t 
learn with flash, and they’re good enough to keep the 
manableed to a minimum. Recognizing the style of 
dress or the outfitting for a mage can be just as good as 
identifying the magic itself. 
> Mihoshi Oni
> Seeing magic with mundane eyes is simply a matter of 
opening yourself up to the details. Magic will always 
change the physical world with its presence. The chill in 
the air, the slight shimmer of heatwaves, a subtle scent of 
lavender, the tinkling of bells, a taste of copper. All have 
been physical effects of my casting. 
Even the complex methods of magic that a certain 
painted elf taught me, which are designed to be harder 
to detect, still create secondary signs that can be sensed 
by mundanes. Mana has that effect on the physical plane. 
It wants to do more. It wants to change everything it 
touches. 
When it comes to spotting magic, the secret is, sweat 
the small stuff.
> Frosty
> I’m a big fan of trying to get people to know not just when 
magic is being used on them, but also when magic is 
being used on someone else. There are plenty of signs I’ve 
seen (besides the really strange behaviors). This mostly 
pertains to spells that manipulate minds and emotions, 
because if the glowing forcefield around someone who’s 
protected by an armor spell isn’t enough to tell you there’s 
magic on them, you have a deeper need for insight than I 
can currently fill. 
One big tell I’ve come across are the signs of an 
internal debate being made external. You’ve got to be able 
to read body language for this, but an internal tension 
while doing things that really shouldn’t cause such issues 
is a good clue that magic is involved. Sure, it could be from 
some other force getting someone to act against their will, 
but with magic the fight to regain control appears as jerky 
movements, sweating, shifting eyes, or stiff motions. It’s 
only a few signs, but it can start clueing you in to trouble. 
Another sign is the eyes. I mentioned the shifting 
eyes above when someone is fighting the arcana-induced 
impulses, but there are three other eye conditions that 
indicate magic in use: the glow, the haze, and the bleeding. 
The glow is a faint glow within the pupil of the eye or a 
radiance to the iris. The cause is similar to some of the 
earlier discussions on manableed. Here the power being 
used to muddle, control, or manipulate the mind comes 
through as a glow within the eyes. Extremely powerful 
spells can make the entire eyeball glow. The haze is a 
deadening of the eye, similar to the way people describe 
mages perceiving the astral plane. Their eyes just kind of 
gloss over and become glassy and empty. The bleeding 
sounds terrible, but the reality is less sinister—and easy 
to mistake for more natural events. The eyes become 
bloodshot (sometimes to the extreme, but that’s rare) as 
with the glowing eyeballs. As a result of the individual 
trying to fight off the mental manipulations, they overstrain 
the blood vessels in their eyes, making them burst. There 
are plenty of other things in the world that cause bloodshot 
eyes, so don’t presume everyone with bloodshot eyes is 
under the influence of magic, but use it as a stepping stone 
to look for other indicators in their behavior.  
> Haze
> My tricks and trappings aren’t like anyone else’s on JP , so 
I’ll give you the lowdown on more traditionally Eastern 
styles of magic and what it looks like. Thanks to years of 
pre-Awakening traditions and a culture that never truly 
stopped believing in the mystical, the Wujen tradition 
has quite a bit of flash and flare within our traditional 
practices. 
The casting of spells, summoning of spirits, and 
enchanting of foci are accompanied by glowing eyes, 
electrical discharges, glowing patterns etched in the air, 
and auras of energy. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD    23
===== PDF PAGE IDX 24 =====
The physical trappings of Wujen talents are many. 
Traditional casting styles are taught to all Wujen that 
involve the use of focusing crystals and traditional fans. 
The use of specific body positioning and movements in 
order to gather and focus mana into the forms we know 
can be beautiful and deadly at the same time. Most 
of the forms are based off the movements of hand-to-
hand combat, and the remainder come from traditional 
dances. A rare few are neither martial nor graceful, but 
rather they channel energies for powerful spells, spirits, 
and enchantments (though those who have witnessed 
such things are unlikely to recall what they saw, because 
most of the forms leave them without life or remaining 
wits). Along with movement, Wujen wrap themselves in 
the traditional trappings of their art and the culture it is 
built from. 
The most common is the fan. Often enchanted as a 
focus for power, some are weapons or even complex 
multi-faceted foci merged in a single form. Traditional 
weapons come next, though rarely used in their intended 
form. Instead, they flash and flutter in a way that frequently 
draws attention from the power being drawn. Watch for 
the magic behind the flashy sword work. You could be 
prepping a parry when suddenly you’re slammed by a 
bolt of lightning.
Basically, Wujen is just as flashy, sometimes even 
more so, than trid magic, but its flash gives it power. 
> Jimmy No
> Loud, flashy, and full of howling and growling. At least 
that’s what I like most people to believe. It’s also what a 
lot of pups think is the way to go. Howl to Wolf for power, 
and that makes you a better shaman. I howl every once 
in a while—sometimes in pain, sometimes in pleasure, 
and sometimes to give myself a little more connection to 
Wolf—but I don’t do it in the middle of a run. I’m old and 
wise, though. If you are looking for a young shaman, look 
for the animal behaviors. Wolf and Dog shamans often 
howl or growl, even as a social behavior. Followers of 
Cat can’t sit still, constantly keeping their distance until 
suddenly they’re on top of you. 
Those are social behaviors, though. How do you spot 
their magic? It’s ritualistic and often tied to some native 
or local tradition that they’ve taken as their own. It’s also 
full of manableed, as everyone keeps calling it. They don’t 
control the mana coming over, and the excess is shaped 
by their style into some physical manifestation. The 
howling you hear, sometimes it’s not the shaman’s voice, 
but rather the mana bleeding over. 
The shamanic mask is the best example. Doesn’t 
happen to all of us, but many take the visage of their 
totem as an honor. I am among those, but I know how to 
be subtle with it. But I know that even my techniques can 
be spotted by the careful. 
No matter how much control we exert, magic is a 
living power. It wants to be revealed. Don’t think too much 
on it. There are always signs. I can’t see myself, but I’ve 
been told that even when I’m being subtle, my eyes flicker 
between colors, my aura appears for a moment, my voice 
ascends to vibrato, my fingernails turn black and claw-
like, or my hair waves in the wind with no helping breeze. 
Little things that stick out, but aren’t necessarily flashy or 
completely other-worldly. 
Be on the lookout for the subtle.
> Lyran
> Magic is both within and beyond the senses of the 
untouched. It flows around them, and yet they are as 
much a part of the mana as any conjurer or adept. Linking 
the power between realms and shaping the flow may be 
beyond most, but feeling its touch is not. 
We can see the magic by opening our mind to its 
presence. The subconscious will notice. Our minds will 
see the change. We are only blinded by our own sight. 
Open eyes with a closed mind will see little. 
> Man-of-Many-Names
> There’s easy stuff to tell for adepts, and also harder 
stuff. Since the mana is being focused inward, it’s 
often tough to tell when the channeling occurs 
because it’s infusing muscles or shifting bones around 
inside the body, hidden from view. The giveaway is 
usually when you see their actions and reactions are 
supermetahuman. The problem is many people don’t 
understand what that means. Prior to the Awakening, 
the fastest and strongest humans could perform feats 
without magic that today even some trained adepts 
can’t manage. Strongman Paul Anderson lifted 
almost three tons without the aid of magic. Usain 
Bolt could run almost forty-five kilometers per hour 
without magic. Can these feats be beaten now? Yes, 
but not easily. 
To tell when magic’s going into a physical feat, you 
have to see more than just the act. You have to really 
look at the individual. Paul Anderson and Usain Bolt 
are unique physical specimens, and though the media 
portrays almost all adepts with models and body builders, 
it’s not what the majority of us look like. I’m lean and lithe, 
but I’m not ripped in the way Ursk Bane is in Hammer 
Fists. Keep an eye out for the average Joe doing above-
average things. 
I know Ma’Fan is going to want to talk too, so I’ll leave 
the over-the-top and externally focused stuff for her to talk 
about.
> Mika
> As much as Mika likes the dig he thinks he just got, I was 
actually planning on talking about the ways to spot an 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
24    SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 25 =====
adept through the term introduced earlier, manableed, 
because I wasn’t sure he had a strong enough gift to ever 
experience it. 
The two most common sources for the powers of an 
adept becoming apparent to the mundane are pushing 
too much mana and losing concentration, sometimes 
at the same moment. Though the energy is channeled 
inward, it still passes from astral to physical to adept. 
Some learn to gather it outside and move it in, while 
others keep the channeling internal. There is no right or 
wrong. The former is easier to detect as adepts use kata, 
hand sign, or scripts to shape the power before letting it 
cascade over or into their body. The same movements of 
body or mind can also be used by internalists without 
the external energy becoming visible.
The appearance of the adept’s energy isn’t 
standardized. Adepts have yet to get fully roped 
into the UMT mindset, but many adept schools and 
training facilities are creating a standard style that lacks 
individuality but increases the efficiency of learning. It 
is also creating a standard style for the identification of 
their powers. They teach the same katas and focusing 
movements, as well as the same meditations in order to 
enhance and develop new abilities. 
The utilization of certain gifts among adepts can 
result in small flashes of energy as eruptions of light 
or sound. Returning a thrown object in a flash leaves a 
trail of images. The whip crack has been a staple of the 
killing hands power for almost a decade. Speed and 
power enhancements create energy flares that wreath 
the adept in energy, sometimes in the form of flames, 
lights, smoky energy, or trails. 
> Ma’fan
> Oh, I forgot to mention something I know much more 
about than Mika: the benefits of connection to a totem. 
Cat smiles on everything I do. As with many others who 
gain guidance from an otherworldly power, it infuses and 
flavors my gifts—with a touch of feline charm, in my case. 
Wolf’s adepts are beastly; Wise Warrior infuses discipline; 
Owl seeks wisdom and wise followers; Bear’s people 
grow strong and powerful. 
And the shamanic mask falls over its adept followers 
just as it does casters and summoners. 
> Ma’fan
> Anybody hear from ‘Hawk lately? I expected a post but 
haven’t seen him log on in a bit. Anything?
> Bull
> Magic is not ours to hide. The loa want magic to be seen. 
Or they don’t. It’s not a choice I make, but I know my 
magic has flash and flare far more often than not. Even 
the weakest of efforts shows the presence and gifts of the 
loa. The most common is the smoke wreathing my hands 
and the scent of burning incense. 
I know others of my tradition who gain the pallor 
of death or a ragged wildness to their hair. Some have 
smoking breath, eyes, or ears. The white eyes are also 
common, as well as pointy teeth. All of these are illusory 
but still obvious changes that can identify the use of 
magic.
> Ferris
> Everything I do is otherworldly! Every spell I cast comes 
with a whole lot of extra flash and flare. Smoke, light 
flashes, fire, shifting colors, arcs of electricity—and that’s 
just how I light a cigarette. When I came into magic, it 
was the most wondrous thing in existence, and I built my 
spells, and style, around making it so flashy no one could 
possibly miss what was going on. Now, how long am I 
meant for the shadows? No clue. Maybe I’ll get noticed 
and get my own trid, maybe I’ll get noticed and be the 
next victim of the “geek the mage first” mentality, but for 
now, I got no choice but to work on the periphery and use 
every trick I’ve got. That means being flashy. 
> Havoc
THE WILL OF  
THE MANASPHERE
POSTED BY: FROSTY
The discussions about spotting magic and all the 
talk of what it looks like for different folks made 
me think about how often those expectations 
are twisted or shifted—not by the beliefs of the 
user, but by the alterations to the mana field of 
the astral plane itself. What we commonly refer 
to as a background count does not just provide 
a challenge to utilizing magic under its influence 
but also shifts the appearance of magic within it. 
I pulled from my own experiences and the expe-
riences of many of my contemporaries, as well 
as readings from older sources, to come up with 
some of the explanations and examples I present 
here. 
We have spoken on how our magic works 
when it works under the control of our will, but let 
me review how it works when our will isn’t nearly 
enough to control its shaping. Those times when 
mana simply wants to be, not to be controlled. 
First, I’ll point out that any changes to the lo-
cal manasphere can change how mana works and 
the appearance it takes on. Whether these chang-
es are an increase or decrease of the local mana 
pool, a change in the aspect of the local mana to-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD    25
===== PDF PAGE IDX 26 =====
ward a specific flavor or style of magic, an area of 
disjointed astral/physical connection known as an 
alchera, the rippling changes of the mana storms, 
or even the variations injected into local magic 
through various spells or metamagical techniques, 
it will shift one or more elements of the efforts put 
forth by mana users when connecting to the pow-
er in a region of altered mana. These effects run 
the gamut of changes, and being ready for these 
shifts could save a runner’s life. Being prepared 
could save that second of shock that could cost 
your life in a dangerous situation.  
Mana ebbs are places where the local mana 
is diminished, meaning there is less to draw on 
to fuel powers and spells. For spirits summoned 
in these spots, it’s like operating in thin air. Every -
thing they do is a struggle. It all takes more effort, 
or their effects are diminished within the ebb. Spir-
its are going to be unhappy when summoned or 
tasked to operate in an ebb. If you don’t care about 
the spirit, no biggie, but if you try to maintain a 
decent reputation within the spirit realm, you’ll 
want to ask less or offer more for their assistance. 
They also, really, really, really, hate being asked to 
materialize in a major ebb. The ones I’ve spoken 
to equate it to being forced to sprint at the top of 
Everest. They also tend to feel physically dimin-
ished and appear as if they are ragged or falling to 
pieces while they’re present on the physical plane.
Adepts almost instantly feel the effects of an 
ebb as it limits the amount of mana they have ac-
cess to—and therefore the abilities they can uti-
lize—on a continuous basis. Most adepts also ap-
pear tired and a bit worn down after only a short 
stay in an ebb. Their powers often lack the gusto 
they have in areas of normal mana. Besides their 
own appearance of wear, their powers can mani-
fest in strange ways. While the ability to kill with a 
touch may lead to a flash of light, a crack of thun-
der, or possibly no visuals at all, within the ebb the 
light turns to weak lightning that cascades over 
the target when struck, the thunder instead rings 
like a gong, or a normally plain strike gains a visu-
al accent that shows power traveling through the 
adept and into their opponent. The ebb makes the 
powers used even more obvious as the local mana 
sometimes has to borrow from natural forces to 
complete the desired effect.  
Spellcasters suffer the most drastic alterations 
to their expectations. Their tried-and-true formu-
lae, gifts of their totem that have been accessed 
a hundred times, or the powers loaned them by 
their loa are shifted and twisted by the diminished 
mana of the ebb. Their methods are practiced and 
true, so the spells still try to draw the same pow -
er. But the diminished mana has to give somehow. 
Casters that have their effects fizzle and come out 
weaker are the luckiest. These fizzled effects are 
reflected on the physical plane as spells initiate but 
appear to struggle for coherence, blurring at the 
edges or appearing to dissipate as they travel or 
progress. 
Diminished effect is an expectation when mana 
is not as abundant or accessible, but there are oth-
er, far worse results of the weakened areas of the 
astral plane. Casters who are forced to complete 
their magic but must push and struggle to get 
the desired effect increase the strain put on their 
bodies and minds. Being trapped in the process 
of trying to complete an incantation is distressing 
and has resulted in many a magician being worn 
to unconsciousness. Trapping magicians in the 
spellcasting process can also prolong that pro-
cess. Spells that usually take no more than an in-
stant to cast could take seconds, or even minutes 
in some cases, for the process to come to fruition. 
And there is no cancelling the process. The mana 
of the ebb begins the flow and refuses to stop. The 
largest problem with this is the ever-changing na-
ture of events. Preparing to cast a lightning bolt at 
a foe who is far more quickly dispatched by your 
samurai associate risks bringing additional un-
wanted attention. 
One of the effects on spellcasting, and mag-
ic use in general within an ebb, is the occasional 
need for mana to draw additional energy from its 
surroundings in order to complete a magical ef-
fort. This effect applies to adepts, casters, sum-
moners, and enchanters (though enchanters rare-
ly perform their processes in an ebb) with varying 
levels of disgust, disdain, fear, or concern depend-
ing on the individual. I personally find these ef-
fects quite unpleasant. As those who understand 
the precepts of blood magic know well, mana can 
be pulled from the life force of an individual. Mana 
is, in essence, the life force of all things on the 
planet, from the lowliest bacteria to the greatest of 
the world’s beasts. Sentience provides additional 
power but isn’t necessary as those magickers of 
the last century learned with the sacrifice of goats 
and chickens. In an ebb, the mana will be pulled 
from surrounding plants or small animals, creating 
rings of withering or death around a caster. Dis-
turbing to say the least. The effort is in no way con-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
26    SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 27 =====
trolled and can occur as a circle, a series of radiant 
lines, or even as a cracked lightning-like pattern 
shooting out for hundreds of meters. 
I know ebbs aren’t always about diminished 
mana but are sometimes intentional changes to 
the “flavor” of the local mana. I’ll discuss that lat-
er, as the effects there are specific to that kind of 
ebb, and they also occur as part of the spike in that 
style over the area. The only other interesting ef-
fect I care to discuss about ebbs is the darkness. 
While it may sound foreboding, the effect I refer to 
is as simple as a darkness that surrounds the cast-
er as mana steals energy from the physical plane 
in the form of light. It’s not the usual, as light and 
mana show no other connection in areas of nor -
mal mana; this is just a random occurrence I’ve 
seen. The shadows don’t diminish the view of the 
caster and instead create a stark contrast of unnat-
uralness from surrounding shadows and darkness, 
so this is not a technique to utilize for stealth.  
On to those places where mana flows like the 
waters of the Amazon: mana spikes. In these rare 
spots, trying to control the flow of mana can be like 
trying to hold onto a fire hose all by yourself or try-
ing to do your best Hoover Dam impression, trying 
to hold back the flow of the Colorado all by your 
lonesome. With excess power comes overflow and 
spillage that makes using magic in these areas a dif-
ficult feat to control, a tiresome effort to manage, 
and a herculean labor to hide (if you’re trying). 
Adepts flash and flare with power even from 
minor bits of exertion that taps their magic. Rip-
pling energy cascades over their body, light erupts 
from their eyes and with their strikes, secondary 
physical effects occur with greater frequency, 
and the rush of easy power often fills them with 
a sense of invulnerability that the extra mana 
doesn’t provide them. I have seen very few adepts 
who do not suddenly resemble over-the-top trid 
characters while functioning within a mana spike. 
The few I have seen put forth massive efforts to fo-
cus their abilities and limit themselves from touch-
ing the excess of mana. It’s not something most 
adepts even have to learn, as they rarely channel 
more power than they can handle. 
Spirits that are summoned in a spike are will-
ful, and anyone who has failed to keep their name 
clean in the eyes of the spirit world would be better 
off never asking for favors or seeking to order even 
a bound spirit to do their bidding. The additional 
mana is like a combat drug for the spirits and dis-
obedience, even to a friendly summoner, is com-
mon, sometimes to the point of breaking the bonds 
that hold them and using the fuel they are surround-
ed by to place the shackles on their masters. When 
they materialize they almost always appear bigger 
than expected and have crisper looks, even when 
pulling material from an imperfect physical setting.
Spells have every effect you would expect in a 
place where you are drawing on an overabundance 
of power. Spells flare with excess energy as mana 
pours through the connection created between 
the astral and physical planes. The flares take a lot 
of forms. I can’t cover them all here, but expect 
the normal light and sound bursts with everything, 
even those spells you use to hide yourself. The 
manasphere doesn’t care, and if you can’t control 
the flow because the pressure of ambient mana is 
too great, then you should not try to connect in 
the first place. In intense concentrations, the spells 
create ripples of overflowing energy that cascade 
out from the caster. The energy could just appear 
as a little wave of bent light or it could carry an 
actual arcane effect with it. I’ve seen random items 
suffer changes in physical state, appearance, and 
material. I’ve seen sparks of fire and lightning that 
are not as harmless as those in an ebb. The excess 
power wants to be something on our plane, and 
without a sentience guiding it, the mana wills what 
the mana wills. Now, these huge effects aren’t al-
ways going to be the case. Sometimes the effect 
is localized with changes to the physical space 
around the caster. The colors of their clothes may 
change, water may suddenly erupt around them, 
a small cloud may form over their head and be-
gin pouring rain and lightning, static may spark off 
them with every step, or their clothes or hair may 
start on fire or start smoking. I’ve seen all of these. 
Excess mana sneaking in may also create sec-
ondary spell effects that were not part of the 
original spell. A fireball that also causes some 
petrification. Invisibility that also creates a field 
of darkness. Light that also burns. Healing that 
comes with lightning. A spell intended to detect 
enemies that also detects rodents. A wave of acid 
that brings with it invisibility. Sometimes the sec-
ond effect can be helpful, but it’s at the whim of 
the mana. The best method I’ve seen of playing 
this game for a caster’s benefit is throwing several 
spells at once and pulling through the mana and 
shaping the overflow. It’s brutally taxing, but at 
least it comes with more of a guarantee that you 
won’t be providing your enemies with armor while 
you’re trying to detect them.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD    27
===== PDF PAGE IDX 28 =====
Now let me quickly talk about both ebbs and 
spikes in terms of mana being shifted to a specific 
aspect. The mana is there; it just has a certain twist 
to it, making it easier or harder to touch based on 
one’s training and beliefs. The same side effects 
can occur in these places, but while one side is 
feeling the overflow, the other is forcing every bit 
of mana they can pull to light a spark. The thing 
is, these changes can often force a caster to alter 
their style in order to get anything going. Hermet-
ics howling or growling to make spells work in a 
shaman’s domain. Shamans being forced to pull 
and shape the mana they draw into patterns that 
are very unshamanic. Both needing to take on the 
behaviors of a voodoo patron in order to make 
things work in a houngan’s realm. 
As aspecting an area is independent of the nat-
ural ebb or spike, such spots could be extremely 
difficult and unpredictable for those trying to per -
form magic when the area is aspected away from 
them. If the overall mana level is low in such a 
place, you may strain too hard in the effort to get 
anything to use. When there is excess mana, the 
lack of connection to an area’s aspect may result in 
magic slipping from your control and manifesting 
in ways you didn’t plan.
In the same vein, we can talk about mana 
storms where the ebb and spike of mana can shift 
positions on a whim, vary between two points, 
or dilate in an instant. These changes make using 
magic inside a mana storm chaotic at its best and 
deadly or crippling at most times. They also offer a 
fate worse than death for those who dare try their 
hand at magic. There are fewer things in the world 
as dangerous as using magic in a mana storm. I 
would go so far as making a deal with dragon to 
avoid it.  
Adepts are in constant danger of fading and 
blossoming in power. One moment unable to 
channel enough mana to break a board, the next 
uncontrollably leaping fifty meters in the air. And 
then falling those fifty meters. One never knows 
what the mana within the storm will do from in-
stant to instant. Not using any powers is the best 
choice, but I know some adepts infuse themselves 
with power rather than activate things. The power 
is just there most of the time and takes almost as 
much concentration and effort to stuff down as it 
would to harness. In a mana storm, the effort is 
worth it.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
28    SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 29 =====
The discussion about spirits in one of these 
spots is easy, because there’s just one thing to 
know: Don’t do it unless you are an ass or have a 
death wish. They are going to fight you, be driv -
en mad by the mana fluctuations, or more likely, 
both. For spirits, a mana storm is like living inside 
a picture painted by the child of M.C. Escher and 
Salvador Dali—emphasis on the child. 
Spells are a mixed bag. Of course, there are 
relatively harmless effects like a spell simply go-
ing off target. Sometimes hitting nothing, other 
times switching to another aura in the area, and 
occasionally circling back to whack the caster. 
Yes, that counts as “harmless” in terms of a mana 
storm. Changes to the physical nature or appear -
ance of spells should be expected, alongside bo-
nus effects like sudden rain or snow of a variety 
of colors, powerful gusts of wind, gaps opening in 
the earth, spontaneous windows to the astral, and 
honestly, just about any weird and random drek 
you can think of. Mana storms make magic even 
more mercurial than Mercurial, and that’s saying 
something.
A horror I have seen and used as a warning 
about mana storms is what I refer to as a “casting 
lock.” Sadly, I’ve seen it twice, and neither time 
did the caster last more than a few hours once it 
occurred. A casting lock is a forced state of con-
tinuous casting or mana channeling. One of my 
lost compatriots tried to use the flow of mana to 
cast small, inconsequential spells over and over. 
The strain of the process started small, but it grew 
more and more wearisome as the minutes rolled 
by. At least he lasted longer than the acquaintance 
who just left themselves open and didn’t try to 
bleed off the magic. They burned out in less than a 
minute as the mana pouring through him was too 
much. It took an hour before he fell to the strain. 
If mana storms are the chaos of magical vari-
ability, alchera are the stoic calm with the pre-
dictable change to local mana flows. Kind of. As 
places of great local mana with enough of its own 
identity to change the physical world, these spots 
force mana to match their local paradigm. Shad-
ows of the past force casters and adepts to use 
anachronistic styles or be unable to touch the local 
magic. Adepts often adapt quickly. Magicians are 
so trained and ingrained in their own systems, it 
can take minutes, days, or weeks to get adjusted, 
if they ever manage it. 
Even when they do, their magic is rarely the 
same in appearance and often varies in function 
as well. Invisibility spells that don’t bend light but 
rather give the caster the appearance of a peas-
ant that no one pays attention to; elemental ef-
fects that shift because fire and lightning have a 
holy significance; spells that limit the final form of 
earth-shaping spells because the local architecture 
and geology are an integral part of the alchera. 
Elements that don’t match are sometimes 
stopped, sometimes changed, and sometimes al-
lowed to play out with the user forced to deal with 
the social ramifications in places where the alchera 
has a local indigenous population. 
In the end, magic and mana are only predict-
able and within our control when we have com-
plex systems to manage and shape it. Without 
that, mana is an unpredictable force with unlimit-
ed potential for both order and chaos.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< SEEING THE INVISIBLE WORLD    29
===== PDF PAGE IDX 30 =====
There is always a next step. Any mage who thinks 
they have reached the pinnacle of what mag-
ic can do need only look at a great dragon, or 
an annoying face-painted immortal elf, and see 
just how much there is to learn. Unfortunately for 
most metahumans, they don’t have long enough 
lifespans to gain the full range of mastery as those 
who have sprawled their education over centu-
ries. Some spellcasters and adepts have realized 
that ascending to the ranks of greatness may re-
quire focus, choosing an area in which to concen-
trate their talents so that they may emerge as true 
masters of a particular type of magic.
The Magical Mastery options presented here 
give mages a chance to find their particular calling, 
selecting an area where they can excel and make 
themselves into a true legend of magic. Most of 
the options here are qualities that work in a fash-
ion similar to regular qualities, though the follow -
ing rules govern their use:
• Unless otherwise specified, all of the mas-
tery qualities in this section require a Magic 
rating. Most also require characters to be 
a Magician, Adept, Aspected Magician, or 
Mystic Adept. 
• Characters may purchase mastery qualities 
that don’t require initiation during character 
creation, but they must also purchase all of 
the requirements for their Mastery qualities 
before leaving character creation. 
• The cost for mastery qualities is always the 
same, even after character generation; they 
don’t experience the same Karma cost in-
crease that other qualities do.
FORBIDDEN ARCANA
MAGIC
MASTERY
30    MAGIC MASTERY >>
ALCHEMICAL ARMORER
Though metaphysicists have been trying to develop genuine, 
spell-shooting “magic bullets” for a few decades now, progress has 
never gotten very far. Enchanting firearms doesn’t increase their 
ranged accuracy or allow them to shoot spells, and the limitations 
of alchemical triggers and the fragile nature of preparations (see 
p. 305, SR5) have prevented even the most limited production 
of enchanted ammunition. In most instances, magic bullets are 
just bullets that have been made into alchemical preparations of 
combat spells that are subsequently fired out of a gun barrel. These 
are just standard alchemy preparations that must be activated with 
the normal triggers. This is universally recognized as a poor design 
for several reasons: Primarily, they are hard to aim, and activating 
a combat spell inside of a firearm will often damage the user or 
the weapon itself. Until recently, it’s simply been more effective to 
have a trained operator fire their weapon normally rather than bring 
alchemy into the equation.
While dozens of corporate R&D teams wasted decades of 
research and billions of nuyen trying to develop bullets that 
could deliver alchemy spells, a pair of neo-anarchist rebels 
in Yucatan figured out how to use alchemy to better deliver 
bullets. Aztlan patrols first encountered Sara Blanco and 
Esteban Carrillo leading a ragged group of about three dozen 
rebels among the ruins of Chichen Itza back in 2064. While the 
rebels nearly doubled the number of soldiers in the Aztlan patrol, 
intelligence reports had suggested that the rebels in that area 
were armed only with basic firearms—mainly bolt-action or 
lever-action rifles and revolvers. A skirmish between the two 
groups quickly broke out. Surprisingly, after a few hours of 
exchanging gunfire, the Aztlan patrol was forced to completely 
withdraw from the area. When questioned by military officials 
during their debriefing, members of the patrol team made wild 
claims about the rebels having lever-action rifles that could fire 
silently and pierce the armor plating of their armored personnel 
carriers.
In an attempt to back up their story, the sergeant in command 
of the patrol presented the projectile portion of a bullet used by 
smaller hunting rifles as evidence. The sergeant claimed that, 
after the first hour of fighting, this bullet had passed through the 
side of his APC and then pierced the helmet of his second-in-
command; killing her instantly. The projectile showed no signs of 
ballistic markings and completely lacked deformation from any kind 
of impact. Aztlan military officials were still skeptical about these 
“magic bullets” and ultimately decided to bury the story after a 
larger force returned to Chichen Itza to reclaim the ruins, but failed 
to verify the presence of the Blanco and Carrillo or their group of 
rebel fighters.
===== PDF PAGE IDX 31 =====
• Some qualities have more than one require-
ment. Some qualities also have alternative 
requirements that can be met instead. 
Qualities with more than one requirement 
will list the requirements separated by the 
word “and,” while alternative requirements 
will be listed after the word “or.” 
• Mastery qualities count toward the max-
imum amount of Karma a character may 
spend on positive qualities at character 
generation.
• A character may exchange spells they re-
ceive from their selection on the Magic/
Resonance priority chart for 5 Karma to 
spend on mastery qualities, but any Kar -
ma that is leftover from purchasing these 
qualities cannot be spent on other things or 
kept after character generation.
• Mastery qualities that require a skill spe-
cialization may be purchased without the 
specialization if the character possesses 
the required skill at a level that is two ranks 
higher than the listed requirement.
• Mastery qualities that have a magical tradi-
tion listed next to them have all of their skill 
requirements lowered by 2 ranks for indi-
viduals of this particular tradition. This in-
cludes the skill ranks that may be required 
to gain the next level of a mastery quality.
ADEPT HEALER
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Adept Power: 
Empathic Healing (p. 1 71, Street Grimoire)
An adept with this quality heals significantly 
more damage per hit when transferring damage 
from another person with the Empathic Healing 
power. Additionally, they suffer a slightly lower 
cost to their own health. When using the Empathic 
Healing power, each net hit removes 3 boxes of 
damage from the wounded character and inflicts 
2 boxes of damage on the adept.
ALCHEMICAL ARMORER
15 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Alchemy 4, Armorer 4, 
and advanced alchemy metamagic
This quality gives the character a spell that al-
lows her to alter the ballistic properties of bullets 
by making them target and lynchpin of prepara-
tions. The cost of the Alter Ballistics spell (see p. 
51) is factored into the cost of this quality, and the 
character does not need to spend any extra Karma 
to learn the spell.
ALCHEMICAL BOMB 
MAKER
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements:  
Alchemy 4 (with Combat Spell specialization) and 
advanced alchemy metamagic
A character with this quality can increase the 
radius or base DV of alchemical preparations that 
have their range listed as LOS(A). For every 2DV 
increase in damage or 10m increase in radius 
(rounded up), the Drain Value is increased by 1. 
A character with this quality may also reduce the 
drain from one type trigger of her choice by one, 
down to a minimum of zero. 
ANIMAL FAMILIAR
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Animal Handling 5
Using this quality can make a non-Awakened 
animal follow the same rules as an animal bonded 
via Attune Animal, though this bond cannot be bro-
ken except by death (type and cost of animal al-
<< MAGIC MASTERY    31

===== PDF PAGE IDX 32 =====
lowed is up to the gamemaster). If a familiar dies, 
the quality must be purchased again if the character 
wants a familiar. Characters may only have one fa-
miliar at a time. The character and animal share a 
limited Sense Link (p. 198, Street Grimoire). They are 
connected emotionally and the character can issue 
commands mentally to the animal, but no other 
senses are shared. If the familiar is within (charac-
ter’s Magic x 50) meters of the character, the char-
acter knows where the familiar is. Adepts with a fa-
miliar can reduce the Karma cost of the Way of the 
Beast by 3.
APT PUPIL
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Arcana 6  
and Knowledge: Magical Theory 4
All that studying has finally paid off. All of the 
magical training times for a character with this 
quality are reduced by 25 percent.
ARCANE BODYGUARD
20 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Counterspelling 4
A character with this quality has double the 
amount of spell defense dice, but they may never 
use more than (spell defense dice / 3) dice on her-
self, even when they have no one around to pro-
tect. The quality also doubles the number of peo-
ple a character can protect with their spell defense 
dice at any one time.
ARCANE  
IMPROVISER [CHAOS]
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 6, 
Counterspelling 6, Arcana 7 (with Spell Design 
specialization), and 4 spells from each category
A character with this quality can spend a point 
of Edge to cast any spell they have not previously 
paid Karma to learn. Characters may only cast this 
spell once per week with a Complex Action, but 
it is always considered Reckless Spellcasting (p. 
281, SR5) when calculating drain DV.
ARCHIVIST
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Arcana 5 and two 
Academic Knowledge skills related to magical 
studies at rank 4 or higher
Studying is no substitute for practice when it 
comes to learning many of the finer points of most 
magical skills, but there is something to be said for 
the value of dedication to one’s studies. The ar -
chivist has spent many hours in dusty libraries and 
hidden collections of scrolls and tomes, studying 
knowledge few have ever seen. Their mind has be-
come a living catalog of arcane knowledge, and 
their skills benefit from this knowledge.
Knowledge is power. A character with this 
quality has extensively studied the inner workings 
of magic, which grants them the ability to manip-
ulate mana at a higher level than they’d normally 
be able to. For every two Academic knowledge 
skills related to magical studies that the character 
possesses at rank 4 or higher, their Magic attri-
bute is considered to be one level higher for the 
purposes of determining whether the Drain Value 
from a magical action will be Physical or Stun.
ASTRAL BOUNCER
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Assensing skill 4 (with 
Aura Reading specialization)
A character with this quality has astral sight 
that is so keen that they’ve developed new 
ways of sizing up everyone they meet. Along 
with the normal results, every two net hits on 
an Assensing skill test can also be used to re-
veal one of the following about a living being: 
all positive qualities, all negative qualities, 
physical attribute ratings, mental attribute rat-
ings, initiate grade, an initiate power, an adept 
power, or Edge rating.  
ASTRAL INFILTRATOR
15 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Astral Combat 5 (with 
Astral Barriers specialization), Initiate Grade 1
Any astral barrier that a character with this 
quality successfully passes through has its Force 
lowered by their Initiate Grade. If passing through 
the barrier lowers the Force to zero, the barrier is 
disrupted, and the mage who set it up is alerted. 
A character with this quality can instead choose 
to leave a barrier at Force 1 if they would normally 
disrupt the barrier by passing through it. A single 
character can only reduce the Force of a barrier 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
32    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 33 =====
once, but multiple characters with this quality can 
combine their efforts to weaken or remove an as-
tral barrier.
BAREHANDED ADEPT 
[BUDDHISM]
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Must be  
an Adept and have Unarmed Combat 6
This quality allows an adept to cast a number 
of touch spells equal to their (Magic attribute / 
2); a new touch spell is granted as the character’s 
Magic attribute rises high enough after acquiring 
this quality. An adept with this quality does not ac-
tually have to use their hands to cast a spell, but 
their bare skin must make contact with the target 
of the spell (or the target’s clothing). A barehand-
ed adept uses their Unarmed Combat skill in place 
of the Spellcasting skill and must still make the 
normal unarmed attack required to target a touch 
spell. Drain is double what it normally would be 
and is resisted with Body + Willpower.  The max-
imum Force of any spell cast with this ability is 
(Magic / 3), rounded up.
BLOOD NECROMANCER
15 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Blood Magic, 
Spellcasting 6 (with Health specialization)
When a creature dies, it takes a short period of 
time for their essence to fade as their individual 
organs and cells begin to fail and die. Characters 
with this quality can use these minuscule traces 
of life to revive and stabilize characters who have 
filled their overflow damage within a number of 
minutes equal to their (Essence – 1, rounded up). 
For every minute that the character was dead be-
fore being revived, they lose one point of Essence. 
If the loss would reduce the character’s Essence 
to zero, that character cannot be revived. Meta-
humans who have returned from the dead and the 
mage who revived them must immediately make 
a Composure (4) test to avoid acquiring long-term 
mental, physical, or spiritual ailments. Critters with 
the Sapience power make a Composure (2) test, 
while critters without the Sapience power only 
make a Composure (1) test to resist permanent 
adverse effects. If a metahuman or critter fails to 
beat the Composure threshold, they must take a 
number of negative qualities equal to (threshold 
– hits) from the table listed below. These nega-
tive qualities can be purposefully chosen, or they 
can be rolled for randomly at the discretion of the 
gamemaster.
CHAIN BREAKER 
[SHAMAN]
10 KARMA  
(ASPECTED MAGE: 5 KARMA)
Minimum Requirements: See description
A character with this quality refuses to bind 
spirits and takes umbrage with any magician 
who does. A chain breaker is known to the astral 
world as an ally, which means that spirits are more 
willing to forgive them at first, but less forgiving 
if they develop a bad Astral Reputation. Charac-
ters with this quality double the amount of Spirit 
Index required to reach their first point of Astral 
Reputation, but require only 10 Spirit Index to 
gain subsequent points of Astral Reputation. As 
a reward for their devotion, a character with this 
quality may choose two additional spirit types to 
summon in addition to the spirit types allowed by 
their tradition. The character must forfeit the use of 
the Binding skill as an active skill, but they may still 
use any previously acquired ranks as a Knowledge 
skill. Additionally, the character must succeed in a 
Composure (2) test to avoid verbally or physically 
lashing out at any nearby mage currently binding a 
spirit, including teammates.
If the Astral Reputation of a chain breaker ever 
reaches 3 or higher, the character loses the abili-
ty to summon the extra two spirit types, and this 
quality is considered a negative quality until it is 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    33
POTENTIAL NEGATIVE  
QUALITIES AFTER REVIVAL
ROLL NEGATIVE QUALITY
2 Amnesia (Neural Deletion)
3 Astral Beacon
4 Deaf
5 Insomnia (15 Karma)
6 Allergy (Sunlight, Moderate)
7 Compulsive (12 Karma)
8 Loss of Confidence
9 Weak Immune System
10 Infirm (15 Karma)
11 Infirm (10 Karma)
12 Compulsive (8 Karma)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 34 =====
paid off with Karma (at twice the listed price) or 
the character can adequately atone for their trans-
gressions by performing the Atonement ritual (p. 
123, Street Grimoire).
CHAKRA INTERRUPTER
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Nerve Strike adept 
power and Assensing 4 (with Aura Reading spe-
cialization) OR Unarmed Combat 6 (with Martial 
Art specialization), Dim Mak Technique, and As-
sensing 4 (with Aura Reading specialization)
When striking nerves, arteries, and pressure 
points, the character doesn’t just disable limbs; 
they block the ability to control and channel mana. 
The attacker must have previously assensed the 
target and gotten at least 2 net hits to use this abil-
ity. Along with the normal effects of Nerve Strike 
or called shots to an arm or leg, a character with 
this quality may temporarily reduce the Magic at-
tribute of a target by 1 for every two net hits on 
her melee attack. The defending character’s Magic 
attribute is reduced for a number of Combat Turns 
equal to the melee skill rank of the attacking char-
acter. Using this ability without the Nerve Strike 
power requires a Called Shot (Specific Location) 
targeting either an arm or a leg. 
CHARLATAN 
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Palming 3 (with 
Prestidigitation specialization) and Assensing 5 
OR Performance 3 (with Magic specialization) 
and Assensing 5
Charlatans are able to use prestidigitation and 
stage magic to hinder any attempts to notice or 
identify their magic or magical items for what they 
really are. When a character with this quality is per-
CHARLATAN
The ability to make someone miss what’s happening right 
under their nose is a valuable one. The charlatan has learned to 
use “parlor tricks” to hide their real magic from other Awakened 
beings. Performance magic, or mundane magic, has seen a steep 
decline in popularity since the beginning of the Sixth World; 
audiences just aren’t as impressed with staged illusions in an era 
where a simple Matrix search will reveal the secrets to most magic 
tricks and there are people with the ability to summon spirits and 
create real fireballs out of thin air. Real magicians were eager to 
relegate performance magic and sleight-of-hand to derision-laced 
footnotes in modern thaumaturgy textbooks, allowing them to move 
on in pursuit of higher knowledge. 
Even though old-school magic may have fallen by the wayside 
a bit, there are still plenty of mundane and Awakened practitioners 
in the Sixth World. This is because one of the underlying principles 
behind stage or street magic—exploiting flaws in memory and 
sensory perception—has a variety of potential uses beyond the 
realm of entertainment. Researchers have been working with 
mundane magicians for decades to piece together the gaps 
between reality and our mental perception of it. Meanwhile, the 
corps and governments of this world have been waving their right 
hand in our faces while picking our pockets with their left for longer 
than any of us can remember. 
Ironically, performance magic still had a few tricks left to 
teach modern magicians who were willing to look at it seriously. 
Researchers at the Dunkelzahn Institute of Magical Research 
have recently published a paper that details several experiments 
wherein magicians were asked to identify magical items used 
or spells cast as part of a mundane magic performance. The 
initial findings suggested a slight decrease in the Assensing 
skill ability of participating magicians, but as the experiment 
progressed researchers noticed that their test subjects were 
getting progressively worse at spotting magic. During the six-
week experiment, their performing magicians had apparently 
learned how to fine-tune their performance so as to better fool the 
audience. They claimed that combining some of the more obvious 
“tells” of casting a spell with sleight-of-hand allowed them not 
only to hide the verbal and somatic elements of their Spellcasting 
skill, but also to temporarily blend their magical signature into 
the natural background count. As long as they concentrated on 
the performance, they were able to extend this effect to anything 
connected to their aura, as long as they used it in the performance 
or kept it near them. 
Charlatans are clever and charismatic tricksters by nature, but 
not all tricksters are necessarily malevolent. Often all it takes is 
a wave of the hand to distract an opponent long enough to avoid 
violence altogether, and the charlatan is a master at navigating 
tense situations. Whether surprising someone at a social gathering 
by pulling a coin out of their ear or sawing an assistant in half in 
front of a large audience, charlatans know that the key to any good 
magic trick is controlling what their audience perceives. As the 
renowned stage magician and DIMR professor Dr. Cara Busara 
writes at the end of her most recent study, “You can’t see what you 
aren’t looking for.”
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
34    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 35 =====
forming a mundane illusion, they add their Perfor-
mance (Magic) or Palming (Prestidigitation) skill 
rank to their Spellcasting rank for the purposes of 
determining the Perception test threshold to notice 
them casting a spell (see Perceiving Magic, p. 280, 
SR5). Anyone watching their performance suffers a 
dice pool penalty to Assensing tests targeting the 
performer, their spells, or their magical equipment. 
The dice pool penalty to Assensing tests is equal to 
the Performance or Palming skill of the performer. 
This dice pool penalty applies for the entire dura-
tion of the performance and an additional number 
of minutes equal to the performing character’s Cha-
risma. This quality is not a true replacement for the 
Masking and Extended Masking metamagics and 
will not hinder attempts to assense the character 
outside of when they are performing mundane 
illusions, but the negative dice pool modifier to 
Assensing Tests can be combined with the use of 
those metamagics.
CHOSEN FOLLOWER
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Mentor Spirit quality 
Characters with this quality have earned the 
right to receive magical instruction from their 
mentor spirits by showing ceaseless devotion 
to their ideals. The wisdom bestowed by a men-
tor spirit is granted instantaneously as a potent 
vision delivered via the shared connection be-
tween the character and their mentor. This in-
struction can only be received once every three 
months during an equinox or a solstice event, 
and each type of instruction can only be re-
ceived once per year. A character with this qual-
ity may ask their mentor spirit to aid them in one 
of the following ways:
• Learn two spells or rituals.
• Improve a magical active skill from rank 1 
to rank 3.
• Reduce the training time for improving a 
magical active skill, skill group, or special-
ization by fifty percent. 
• Reduce the training time for improving 
their Magic attribute by fifty percent.
• Improve an Academic knowledge skill re-
lated to Magic from rank 1 to rank 4.
• Ignore glitches or reduce critical glitches 
during Step 5 (Craft the Focus, p. 307, SR5) 
when crafting a single focus.
• Ignore glitches or reduce critical glitches 
during Step 7 (Seal the Ritual, p. 296, SR5) 
when performing a single ritual.
• Reduce the threshold for the Arcana + 
Logic Extended Test to create an ally spir -
it formula to (Force x 3); see p. 201, Street 
Grimoire.
CLOSE COMBAT MAGE
5 KARMA PER LEVEL
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 4 (per 
level of quality) and spell shaping metamagic
When this mastery quality is purchased, the 
character may choose one benefit per level from 
the list below. Each benefit may only be chosen 
once.  
• The total dice pool penalty for using the 
Spell Shaping metamagic is reduced by 2, 
down to a minimum of zero. 
• Spell radius can be increased or decreased 
by two meters per –1 dice pool penalty to 
the Spellcasting test instead of 1 meter.
• Spherical areas unaffected by the spell can 
be up to three meters in radius.  
DARK ALLY  
(SPECIFIC SPIRIT)
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Binding 7, Ritual 
Spellcasting 9
Magicians are capable of binding a specif-
ic spirit after using a Calling ritual (p. 126, Street 
Grimoire). This spirit is limited to a specific kind of 
spirit (for example, a boggle) rather than a spirit 
type (for example, fae). A bound spirit is subject to 
the limit on the number of bound spirits, and it can 
provide services related to manipulation spells. 
Spirit gains the Restless quality when binding is 
attempted. Force of the spirit cannot exceed the 
Magic rating of the magician.
DEATH DEALER
15 KARMA PER LEVEL 
(MAXIMUM 3)
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 4  
(with Combat Spells specialization)  
or Critical Strike adept power
All Combat spells cast by a character with this 
quality have their DV increased by 1 per level of this 
quality. However, channeling even more destruc-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    35
===== PDF PAGE IDX 36 =====
tive forces wreaks havoc on the character’s system. 
The drain code for any affected Combat spells is in-
creased by +1 per level. Adepts with this quality add 
an additional +1 DV to any attacks made with active 
skills affected by the Critical Strike power, but they 
may only purchase the first level of this quality. 
DEDICATED CONJURER
10 KARMA  
(ASPECTED MAGE: 5 KARMA)
Minimum Requirements: See description 
Characters must completely forfeit use of the 
Spellcasting skill as an active skill and the ability 
to cast spells, but they may still use any previously 
acquired ranks in the Spellcasting skill as a Knowl-
edge skill. In exchange, the dedicated conjurer can 
choose a new type of spirit to summon and bind for 
every two full ranks they have in their Summoning 
skill. These spirit types can be summoned in addition 
to the spirit types normally allowed by their tradition, 
and they do not replace any of the other types of 
spirits a character with this quality can summon. 
When using the Conjuring skill group, characters 
with this quality add 1 to their Magic rating when de-
termining whether drain they must resist is Physical 
or Stun damage. Aspected mages who are able to 
learn skills in the Conjuring skill group automatically 
meet the requirements for this quality. 
DEDICATED 
SPELLSLINGER
10 KARMA  
(ASPECTED MAGE: 5 KARMA)
Minimum Requirements: See description
Characters with this quality completely forfeit 
use of the Summoning and Binding skills as ac-
tive skills, but they may still use any previously ac-
quired ranks in those skills as Knowledge skills. In 
exchange, characters gain a new spell for free every 
time they raise their Spellcasting skill, and the Kar-
ma cost of learning new spells is reduced by 1. The 
character also receives a free spell for every rank 
they possess in the Spellcasting skill at the time of 
purchasing this quality, including character genera-
tion. Specializations count as one rank in a skill for 
the purposes of the free spells offered by this qual-
ity, but the selected spell must be compatible with 
the specialization. Aspected mages who are able to 
learn skills in the Sorcery skill group automatically 
meet the requirements for this quality.
DUAL-NATURED 
DEFENDER
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements:  
Dual Natured quality and Astral Combat 3
Characters with this quality have learned that the 
Sixth World is not the kindest place to dual-natured 
creatures, and it’s forced them to learn how to de-
fend themselves against a variety of astral threats. 
A character with this quality may stop astrally per-
ceiving with a Free Action to avoid astral barriers 
or threats. The amount of concentration required 
to disconnect from the astral causes a –2 dice pool 
penalty to all actions the critter makes when they 
are not astrally perceiving. A dual-natured critter 
cannot use any of its critter powers (except Sapi-
ence) while in this state, and shapeshifters are stuck 
in whatever physical form they are currently in. A 
dual-natured critter cannot stop astrally perceiving 
for more minutes than its Magic attribute in a twen-
ty-four-hour period before it must reconnect with 
the astral. For every minute past the allotted time 
that a critter does not perceive the astral, it perma-
nently loses one point of Magic. If a character with 
this quality is knocked unconscious, they automati-
cally reconnect with the astral. This quality does not 
hide the fact that a critter is Awakened when the 
critter is assensed, but it inflicts a –2 penalty on any 
attempts to astrally perceive the critter. 
DURABLE PREPARATIONS
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Alchemy 6
The character’s intimate knowledge of the materi-
als and skills used in alchemy gives them insight to re-
inforce the magical bonds of the preparation. Increase 
the time before the preparation starts to lose potency 
to (potency x 3) hours, instead of potency x 2.
ELEMENTAL MASTER 
[WUXING]
20 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: 5 spells related to a 
specific natural element (air, earth, fire, or water), 
or Conjuring 4 (with specialization in conjuring 
spirits of air, earth, fire, or water)
The elemental master has chosen a natural el-
ement (air, earth, fire, or water) on which to focus, 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
36    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 37 =====
and developed an intense connection to that ele-
ment. A character with this quality reduces all in-
coming damage from their chosen element by half, 
and they are immune to any secondary effects it 
might normally cause (see Elemental Damage, p. 
1 70, SR5). Because incoming damage is halved be-
fore rolling for damage resistance, this quality pro-
tects both the character and their worn equipment 
from elemental damage.
FLESH SCULPTER
10 KARMA PER LEVEL 
(MAXIMUM 3)
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 4 (with 
Manipulation Spells specialization), Zoology 5, 
and Spell: Shapechange or (Critter) Form
A character with this quality is able to turn 
themselves and others into a larger range of ani-
mal forms with the Shapechange or (Critter) Form 
spells. For each level of this quality, a Flesh Sculpter 
can transform a voluntary subject into an animal 
form with a base body that is two points greater or 
lower than normally allowed by these spells.
HEALER
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 4 (with 
Health specialization) and First Aid 3
You decided a long time ago that no one dies on 
your watch. Characters with this quality become so 
in tune with the auras of the sick and injured during 
their training that they establish a much stronger 
empathic link when healing them magically, even 
if their patient has lowered Essence. The character 
can use net hits from Spellcasting skill tests to re-
duce the time it takes for a health spell to become 
permanent by 2 Combat Turns per net hit instead 
of 1. Additionally, dice pool penalties to casting 
health spells on characters with lowered Essence 
are halved (round down). 
ILLUSIONIST
10 KARMA PER LEVEL 
(MAXIMUM 3)
Minimum Requirements:  
Spellcasting 4 (with Illusion specialization)
Each level of this quality allows a charac-
ter to sustain a single Illusion spell without 
taking a penalty. The character must choose 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    37
===== PDF PAGE IDX 38 =====
which type of spell they can sustain (Physical or 
Mana) when purchasing a level of this quality. 
The character cannot benefit from this quality 
if they sustain spells with a Force that exceeds 
their Magic rating.
ITEMS OF POWER
25 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Artificing 6
The Magic attribute of a character with this 
quality is increased by 3 for the purposes of de-
termining the total rating of foci the character can 
have before risking focus addiction. 
MAGE HUNTER
15 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 4 (with Com-
bat Spells specialization); see description
Each level of this quality allows a character to 
reduce a Counterspelling dice pool aimed against 
them by 2 in exchange for adding 1 to the drain 
of a Combat spell they are casting. Prerequisites 
increase if characters want additional levels—for 
level 2, Spellcasting rank must be 7; for level 3, 
must be 9.
MISSILE DEFLECTOR
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Adept Power: Missile 
Parry (1) and Adept Power: Counterstrike
Adepts with this quality may use the Counter -
strike adept power as an interrupt action to imme-
diately throw an object that they have successfully 
caught using the Missile Parry power. The adept 
can target anyone or any area within their normal 
throwing range. 
MYSTIC FOREMAN
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 4 (with 
Manipulation Spells specialization), Industrial 
Engineering 4, and Chemistry 4
Shape [Material] spells cast by a character 
with this quality apply the Force of their spell as a 
negative dice pool modifier to the target materi-
al during the Object Resistance test. Additionally, 
their Shape [Material] spells now reduce the Struc-
ture ratings of reinforced materials by (Force x 2) 
points per combat turn instead of (Force) points 
per combat turn.
MYSTIC PITCHER
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Fling spell, Spellcast-
ing 4 (with Manipulation Spells specialization)
A character with this quality can use the 
Fling spell to hurl objects more accurately at 
selected targets or over long distances. This 
quality allows you to shift the range modifiers 
for attacks with the Fling spell down by one cat-
egory cumulative with any qualities or vision 
enhancements that also reduce range modifi-
ers. Alternatively, you may choose to use aero-
dynamic grenade ranges instead of reducing a 
range modifier. Additionally, this quality reduc-
es the dice pool penalty for all called shots us-
ing the Fling spell by 1; this is compatible with 
any other qualities that reduce the dice pool 
penalties for called shots. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
ANIMAL FORMS AND FLYING
Critters with the ability to fly do so by using the Flight active 
skill. They learn this by spending their formative years learning 
this critical skill or dying in the attempt. Normally, the Flight skill 
is only possessed by critters, which means that a mage/adept 
in an animal form would default on any skill checks that involve 
flying. Gamemasters who feel that this level of realism doesn’t 
suit their game may use one of the following alternatives or 
come up with their own.
• Allow characters to learn Flight active skill by spending 
Karma as normal. Remember that adepts with the totem 
form metamagic must succeed in an Arcana + Magic 
[Mental] Test to shift forms. This could potentially make 
training take longer or result in an adept becoming an 
animal permanently.
• Allow characters to use any of the Athletics group skills or 
the Pilot Aircraft skill in place of the Flight skill and apply 
a –1 dice pool penalty to all skill checks that involve flying.
• Allow characters to use the average rating (rounded up) 
of their Athletics skill group in place of the flight skill. If a 
character has not broken up the Athletics skill group, the 
average will be equal to the rating of the skill group.
• Allow mage characters to the use half the (Force) of their 
spell (rounded up) in place of the Flight skill; adepts should 
be allowed to use their Initiate grade.
38    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 39 =====
PACIFIST ADEPT 
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Pacifist quality (10 or 
15 Karma), Cool Resolve adept power, Notoriety 
less than 2
Adepts with this quality have dedicated years 
of training to using the powers granted by their qi 
to further their pursuit of peaceful conflict resolu-
tion. This quality offers special benefits for each 
level of the Pacifist quality that the adept possess-
es, but also requires a deeper dedication to their 
vow of non-violence.
• 10 Karma: Any attacks that would cause 
Physical damage made by anyone, or at 
anyone, within a number of meters equal 
the adept’s Magic Rating has its associat-
ed limit reduced by 2. This includes attacks 
made by anything that lacks an Essence 
attribute, but not attacks against them. 
After all, you can’t really kill something 
if it’s not (debatably) alive. The charac-
ter also receives an additional +1 to their 
dice pool and limit for any opposed social 
skill checks or Knowledge skill checks they 
make to avoid using violence. Any attacks 
against the Pacifist Adept or made by the 
Pacifist reduce the number of 1s needed to 
glitch by one.
• 15 Karma: Any attempts to cause harm 
(Physical or Stun damage) performed by 
anyone, or at any living being, within a 
number of meters equal the adept’s (Mag-
ic Rating x 2) have their limit reduced by 
4. This includes attacks made by anything 
that lacks an Essence attribute, but not at-
tacks against them. The character also re-
ceives an additional +3 to their dice pool 
and limit for any opposed social skill checks 
or Knowledge skill checks they make to 
avoid using violence. Any attacks against 
the Pacifist Adept or made by the Pacifist 
reduce the number of 1s needed to glitch 
by three.
POTION MAKER
15 KARMA
Minimum Requirements:  
Alchemy 4 and Chemistry 4
The Potion Maker doesn’t take any extra drain 
from the basic lynchpin triggers when creating al-
chemical preparations if the lynchpin is a liquid. 
The lynchpin must have some component in it 
that pertains to the nature of the spell (a Fireball 
spell could use gasoline, a Manipulate Earth spell 
could use a handful of dirt, a Heal spell could have 
ground aspirin tablets, etc.). If a spell contains 
more than one elemental component, both ele-
ments must be represented in the lynchpin. The 
entire volume of the liquid must either be con-
sumed by or poured over the target before the 
preparation can be triggered in any way other than 
with a timer trigger. Advanced lynchpin triggers 
still add drain as normal. 
PRACTICED  
ALCHEMIST [ISLAMIC]
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Alchemy 6
Each alchemical preparation created by a char-
acter with this quality lasts twice as long before 
the potency begins to diminish and receives a dice 
pool bonus equal to (1 + Initiate grade) whenever 
it is triggered.
PUPPET MASTER  
[BLACK MAGIC]
10 KARMA PER LEVEL 
(MAXIMUM 3)
Minimum Requirements: Psychology 5 and 
Spellcasting 4 (Manipulation spells)
This quality allows a character to sustain one 
Mental Manipulation spell per level of the quali-
ty without taking a penalty. The character cannot 
benefit from this quality if they sustain spells with 
a Force that exceeds their Magic rating.  
RECKLESS  
SPELL MASTER
10 KARMA PER LEVEL 
(MAXIMUM 6)
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 6
Once per day per level of this quality, a char -
acter may choose not to increase the drain value 
for casting a spell as a Simple Action (see Reck -
less Spellcasting, p. 281, SR5). The caster must 
get a full eight hours of uninterrupted rest before 
they may cast spells without increasing the drain 
value again.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    39
===== PDF PAGE IDX 40 =====
RENAISSANCE  
RITUALIST [CHAOS]
8 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Arcana 4, Knowledge: 
Magical Traditions 5, and Ritual Spellcasting 4
When characters with this quality are leading a 
ritual, a number of participants equal to their Mag-
ic + Initiate Grade may observe different traditions 
without penalty.
REVENANT ADEPT
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements:  
Adept Power: Rapid Healing adept power
An adept with this quality may use the Regen-
eration power up to four times a year. When ac-
tivated, the power functions until all injuries are 
healed. The adept must then wait until the next 
equinox/solstice event (or thirty days, whichever 
is longer) before they may use the Regeneration 
power again.
SHOCK MAGE
15 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 6, at least 
one electricity-based skill
When a character with this quality successful-
ly inflicts damage with a Combat spell, after rolling 
their Damage Resistance test, the initiative scores of 
their targets are reduced by an amount equal to the 
caster’s (net hits / 2), rounded up. Any Combat spells 
with secondary effects that reduce initiative are 
compatible with this quality, and the effects stack.
SKINWALKER [SIOUX]
5 KARMA PER LEVEL 
(MAXIMUM 3)
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 4 (with a 
Manipulation Spells specialization), Zoology 2, 
and the (Critter) Form spell
A character with this quality is able to take on a 
larger range of animal forms with the (Critter) Form 
spell. For each level of this quality, a Skinwalker 
can assume an animal form with a base Body Rat-
ing that is 6 points greater or lower than her own, 
as long as they possess the pelt or skin of that an-
imal. This only applies when the Skinwalker casts 
the spell on themselves, not on others. 
SPECTRAL WARDEN 
[HERMETIC]
15 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: See description
A character with this quality always chooses to 
summon a spirit as part of a binding, which allows 
them to summon a more potent spirit than would 
previously be possible. Spirits the character sum-
mons during a binding ritual have one optional 
power for every 2 full points of Force instead of 
every 3. The character must forfeit the use of the 
Summoning skill as an Active Skill, but they may 
still use any previously acquired ranks as a Knowl-
edge skill. The character may also use their Binding 
skill in place of the Ritual Spellcasting skill to per -
form rituals with the Minion keyword; the Binding 
skill is used in place of the Summoning skill when 
the character tries to pacify a bound spirit (see Bad 
Feelings with Bound Spirits, p. 301, SR5).
Characters with this quality are often known in 
the spirit world as slavers or, at the very least, in-
credibly ill-mannered. Because the character’s ten-
dency to bind is already known, their Spirit Index 
does not accrue any faster, but the spirits are more 
demanding of them when they try to atone. The 
amount of karma they must spend to buy off their 
Astral Reputation when performing the Atone-
ment ritual (p. 123, Street Grimoire) is doubled.
SPELL JAMMER
20 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Counterspelling 6
Characters with this quality may spend a Com-
plex Action to make a Counterspelling + Magic 
[Astral] v. Spellcasting + Magic [Astral] Opposed 
Test against a number of characters, within line of 
sight, equal to their Magic / 2. Any net hits on this 
test are inflicted as a negative dice pool modifier 
to any Spellcasting Tests made by the afflicted tar-
gets for (net hits) Combat Turns.
SPIRIT HUNTER
20 KARMA PER LEVEL 
(MAXIMUM 3)
Minimum Requirements: Banishing 4 or Astral 
Combat 4 (Spirits) or Killing Hands adept power; 
see description
A character with this quality has the ability to pre-
vent spirits from using their powers for a short period 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
40    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 41 =====
of time. Any time a character with this quality success-
fully uses the Banishing skill to remove a favor that a 
spirit owes, damages a spirit in astral combat, or dam-
ages a spirit with the Killing Hands power, that spirit 
cannot use any of its powers for two Combat Turns 
per level of the quality. Characters may purchase an-
other level of this quality at skill rank 8 and skill rank 
12. Adepts with the Killing Hands power may receive 
the higher levels of this quality if they raise their Astral 
Combat skill to skill rank 6 and then skill rank 8.
SPIRITUAL LODGE
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements:  
Ritual Spellcasting 6, Artisan 3
The magician can create a magical lodge 
through meditation without the need for materi-
als. For every hour that the magician meditates, 
the lodge increases by 1 in Force, with a radius 
of Force in meters. A group of magicians of the 
same tradition with this quality can quickly build 
a foundation for ritual magic, as they can increase 
the Force of the lodge by 1 per hour per magician. 
Maximum Force of the Lodge is two times the 
highest magician’s Magic Rating. The lodge acti-
vates when the magician stops meditating. This 
lodge lasts until the next sunset or sunrise. This 
lodge has no physical presence, save for a sense 
of calmness within.
SPIRITUAL PILGRIM 
[BUDDHISM]
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Assensing 4  
and Academic Knowledge: Magical Theory 3
A character with this quality has learned to 
take on the energy of new places rather than 
fight it instinctively. They acclimate to one point 
of background count every three days instead of 
every ten days.
SPRAWL TAMER
10 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Animal Handling 6
The Sprawl Tamer is a magical beast master 
of the urban jungle. The number of tricks (p.184, 
Howling Shadows) a critter is capable of learning 
is increased to twice the critter’s Logic. Domes-
ticated critters (p.186, Howling Shadows) that a 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    41
===== PDF PAGE IDX 42 =====
Sprawl Tamer trains have the number of tricks 
they can learn increased to triple their Logic. Ad-
ditionally, the Sprawl Tamer is always opposed by 
the critter’s Willpower x 2 when asserting dom-
inance, regardless of the type of critter. Lastly, 
the threshold for training any type of critter is re-
duced by 1. 
STALWART ALLY
15 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Ally spirit and Binding 4
A character with this quality has an ally spir -
it that has been with them for a long time. Their 
connection with this spirit is particularly deep 
and has extra benefits. Once per day, a charac-
ter with this quality or their ally spirit may give 
a point of Edge to the other member of the pair; 
this can only be done by one of them per day, not 
both of them. This point of Edge lasts until sunrise 
or sunset, whichever comes first. Additionally, ei-
ther the spirit or the conjurer may spend a Com-
plex Action to add their Force or Magic attribute 
as a dice pool bonus to a single Drain Resistance 
test that the other member of the pair will make 
within the same Combat Turn.
TABOO TRANSFORMER 
[WICCA]
15 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Spellcasting 4 (with 
Manipulation Spells specialization), Zoology 5, 
and the Shapechange or (Critter) Form spell
A character with this quality can use the 
Shapechange or (Critter) Form spells on involun-
tary targets. The spellcaster must succeed in a 
Spellcasting + Magic [Force] vs. Body (+ Counter -
spelling) Opposed Test. The spell’s Force must also 
equal or exceed the subject’s Body attribute. Sub-
tract 1 from the resulting critter’s base attribute 
ratings for every hit the caster generates, down to 
a minimum of 1. The mental attributes of the tar -
get remain unchanged.
VEXCRAFT
7 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Suppress Focus 
(LOS): Disenchanting 6, Grounding Focus (LOS): 
Disenchanting 10
SUPPRESS FOCUS (LOS) 
Suppress Focus is a more powerful version of 
Deactivate Focus that disrupts the focus for a num-
ber of Combat Turns, depending on the outcome 
(and net hits) of the Disenchanting + Magic [As-
tral] v. target’s Force + owner’s Magic Test. Sup-
pression lasts for (net hits) Combat Turns.
GROUNDING FOCUS (LOS) 
The magician uses the interface with a con-
struct to overheat the focus with magic so that 
it damages its owner with jolts of arcane ener -
gy. The test is a Disenchanting + Magic [Astral] 
v. target’s Force + owner’s Magic Opposed Test. 
If the arcane hacker succeeds, the focus’ owner 
receives Stun damage equal to the focus Force + 
any net hits that were achieved by the attacker. 
The target does not resist the damage. This can 
also be applied to fetishes (treat the Force of a fe-
tish as being zero). If successful, the fetish is de-
stroyed. In either test, spending a point of Edge 
by the magician can turn the damage from Stun 
to Physical.
WORSHIP LEADER
5 KARMA
Minimum Requirements: Leadership 4,  
Ritual Spellcasting 5
The worship leader is able to make use of mun-
dane participants in Ritual Spellcasting tests as 
long as they believe in her tradition. For every (60/
Charisma) mundane participants who are willing 
to participate in the ritual, the leader receives a +1 
bonus to their dice pool and to the limit of the rit-
ual. The maximum bonus that a leader can receive 
from mundane participants is equal to their Ritual 
Spellcasting skill rank.
FOCUSED 
AWAKENED
Some Awakened choose to focus their talents 
in a particular area, gaining skills in one area of 
expertise at the expense of others. Other Awak -
ened are trying to make the best of their limited 
abilities. Here are some different ways Awakened 
individuals focus their abilities.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
42    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 43 =====
THE ELEMENTALIST
The Elementalist emphasizes their magic toward 
one of the four elements (earth, air, fire, water). 
This focus is not only with spells, but of spirits 
too. Such a strong devotion does cost parts of the 
Awakened’s capability in other areas.
• Cannot take any skills from the Enchanting 
skill group.
• Cannot astrally project.
• Must choose one of the four elements 
(earth, air, fire, water).
• Can only cast spells of the category speci-
fied by the element in their tradition.
• Can only summon spirits of the chosen ele-
ment in the fashion of their tradition. 
• Receive +2 dice in Banishing/Binding skill 
tests spirits of the element they’ve chosen.
• Get –2 dice in Banishing/Binding skill tests 
for spirits not of the element they’ve cho-
sen.
THE HEDGE  
WITCH/WIZARD
Hedge wizardry contains those who for some 
reason have an unusual focus with regard to 
Spellcasting. They have a talent for one spell cat-
egory that inexplicably causes teir aptitude for 
other spell categories to atrophy. While they are 
often lumped together with aspected magicians 
like Sorcerers, they are still talented in Alchemy 
for the same spell category.
• Cannot take the Conjuring skill group.
• Cannot astrally project.
• Choose a spell category (Combat, Health, 
Detection, Illusion, Manipulation); hedge 
wizards can only learn/cast spells/create 
preparations of that category. Rituals can 
be done only if they relate to spells of the 
chosen category.
• Reduce drain in the casting of spells and 
preparations of the chosen category by 2. 
• Hedge wizards get –2 dice for Dispelling/
Disenchanting spells and preparations of 
other spell categories.
THE NULL WIZARD
The null wizard is an odd manifestation of mag-
ic. These Awakened, if you call them that, cannot 
actually create anything magical. They are, how -
ever, talented in disrupting or redirecting magic. 
How some individuals have Awakened this way 
is a mystery, though one theory suggests that the 
metahuman condition as a whole subconscious-
ly perceives magical threats, and some manifest 
this awareness as null wizards.
• Cannot use any of the following skills: Al-
chemy, Artificing, Binding, Ritual Spellcast-
ing, or Spellcasting.
• Cannot astrally project.
• Gains Reflection metamagic for free (p.151, 
Street Grimoire).
• Gains Spell Resistance quality for free.
THE SEER
The seer is theorized to be the earliest manifes-
tation of the rise of magic, with the exception 
of “spike babies.” It’s also one of the hardest to 
prove, as the people involved do not manifest 
magical talent. Seers, as a category, also include 
dreamwalkers—those that can astrally project. 
Those who believe this theory have theorized 
that authors like H.P Lovecraft and L. Frank Baum 
were aspected magicians whose inspiration 
came from the astral planes.  
• Cannot take any magical skill group.
• Astral Perception is a Complex Action in-
stead of a Simple Action.
• Gains psychometry metamagic for free (p. 
145, Street Grimoire).
• Gains sensing metamagic for free (p. 158, 
Street Grimoire).
NEW METAMAGICS
PARADIGM SHIFT
Perhaps the single most interesting technique 
yet discovered, paradigm shift allows a magician 
to set aside their old tradition and choose a new 
one. Once chosen, this new tradition defines their 
use of magic, and they lose all access to their old 
tradition. When the magician initiates again, they 
may choose paradigm shift as the new metamag-
ic if they wish to change again. 
PARADIGM SHIFT:  
INSECT SHAMAN
Leaving their old tradition behind, the magician 
now follows the insect shaman tradition. This dif-
fers from a normal paradigm shift in two ways. The 
first is that the magician may never take another 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    43
===== PDF PAGE IDX 44 =====
paradigm shift to leave this tradition. The second is 
that the insect patron gifts the magician with Karma 
equal to what it cost to initiate and take this tech-
nique. That’s so kind! You’d think that there’d be 
something in the fine print about paying the queen 
back with something else down the line, but maybe 
the queen assumed the candidate would be aware.
PARADIGM SHIFT: TOXIC
This is less something you learn, more some-
thing you become. Any magician may turn tox-
ic once given a good enough reason, or having 
been exposed to enough corrupted energy. On 
the downside, there is no known way for a tox-
ic mage to leave this tradition behind and take a 
new paradigm. On the positive side, the act of 
going toxic gifts the magician with Karma equal 
to what it cost to initiate and take this technique. 
All it cost was their sanity …
SPIRIT EXPANSION: UMT
Requirement: Must be able to  
summon at least five types of spirit
One of the defining moments in Universal 
Magic Theory was when a group of shamans in 
Prague were able to call forth an elemental, previ-
ously the exclusive domain of hermetic magicians. 
It took some time to perfect the technique, but it 
has since been expanded. Each time that this tech-
nique is taken, the magician learns to summon 
one new type of spirit, chosen from air, earth, fire, 
water, beasts, man, guardian, guidance, plant, or 
task. As the new spirit is from outside the magi-
cian’s tradition, they do not slot into a spellcasting 
area, but may otherwise serve as normal for a spir-
it of their kind. 
SPIRIT EXPANSION: 
SHEDIM
Requirement: Must be able to summon at least 
one spirit. Must negotiate with a master shed-
im who knows the metamagic.
With the closing of the DeeCee portal, the 
pathway for more shedim spirits to enter our world 
was lost. This meant that each one destroyed or 
banished was one less that would ever exist here. 
Realizing that extinction was the final result, sev -
eral master shedim in Europe gathered together 
and crafted a technique not unlike that of insect 
shamans, allowing them to teach a metahuman to 
summon their kind. In exchange for serving a new 
master, the shedim would be allowed entry into 
this plane of existence and, like any spirit, would 
have a small chance of slipping free. These master 
shedim have been quietly teaching this technique 
in hopes of saving their kind. Most magicians who 
have seen it call it “necromancy,” conflating it with 
previously discovered necromantic traditions, 
an error that the shedim have seen no reason to 
correct. A shedim summoner may also summon a 
master shedim as a great form ritual.
IMPROVED ASTRAL FORM
A magician draws energy from their body to cre-
ate the astral form, leaving their physical frame in 
a sleep-like state in the process. Those who take 
this technique have learned to draw more ener -
gy, putting their frame in a deeper slumber in ex-
change for more time away from it. This technique 
allows the magician to add their initiate level to 
the duration that they may remain projected. If 
this technique is used, the deep slumber means 
that it takes one minute for a magician’s body to 
wake up after the astral form rejoins it.
ASTRALNAUT
Requirement: Must know improved astral form
By truly mastering the act of drawing energy 
from the physical frame, an astralnaut can drain so 
much that their body enters a coma, their physical 
processes slowing to a crawl. This allows the ma-
gician to greatly expand the duration of their astral 
jaunts, including metaplanar explorations. When 
using this technique, the magician’s allowed time 
in an astral form is measured in days, not hours. 
Due to the coma-like state, it requires twenty-four 
hours for the magician’s body to wake up once the 
astral form has rejoined it.
STRUCTURED 
SPELLCASTING
This metamagic seeks to take the risk (and some 
reward) out of spellcasting by making it more tame 
and controlled. A mage with this metamagic may 
not use reckless spellcasting. Another effect of this 
metamagic is that in no case whatsoever may the 
mage ignore the limit on Spellcasting tests, even 
by using reagents or Edge. For giving up this free-
dom, the drain the mage suffers for casting spells 
is reduced by 1 (but always at least 1).
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
44    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 45 =====
TAROT SUMMONING
Only usable by mages of the tarot tradition
This metamagic may be taken up to five times. 
At the first level of Tarot Summoning, mages 
choose one suit of the tarot: blades, coins, batons, 
or cups. The mage can only summon spirits from 
this suit using tarot summoning (see Tarot Sum-
moning sidebar, p. 93). If a card is drawn that is 
not of a suit chosen by the mage, no spirit is sum-
moned (or a spirit is summoned but refuses to 
obey the mage, gamemaster’s discretion). Tarot 
mages may remove suits from their deck that they 
are unable to summon, but only entire suits, rather 
than individual cards of some suits
For each additional time tarot summoning is 
chosen, the mage may select another suit that they 
are able to summon. When a tarot mage takes the 
fifth and final level of Tarot Summoning, they are 
then able to summon the Major Arcana. 
RECKLESS NECRO 
CONJURING
Unlike normal reckless conjuring (p. 192, Street 
Grimoire), reckless necro conjuring allows a necro 
mage to summon a spirit without a Necro Sum-
moning ritual. When reckless necro conjuring is 
used, a necro mage summons a necro spirit in 
the same way a normal mage would summon a 
spirit, except the host needed for the spirit (see 
Necro Summoning Ritual, p. 52) is still required. 
Only one necro spirit can be summoned at a 
time in this fashion, and the mage must resist 
drain like a normal mage does when summon-
ing a spirit, except the drain value is now equal 
to two times the hits (not net hits) on the spir -
it’s defense test, with a minimum drain value of 
4. This metamagic only applies to summoning 
necro spirits. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    45
===== PDF PAGE IDX 46 =====
NOBLE SACRIFICE
Superficially similar to blood magic, the noble sac-
rifice metamagic is actually its opposite. The Awak-
ened individual with noble sacrifice is convinced of 
the inherent goodness of risking harm to one’s self 
for the benefit of others. As such, when they are 
suffering on behalf of others, they become much 
more powerful than they would be otherwise. 
This metamagic requires the mage to take a 
Free Action to activate. Once activated, the mage 
designates a metahuman individual or individuals 
within X meters of themselves (where X is Magic 
Rating). When any of these individuals take dam-
age, it applies instead to the magician, who may 
resist it normally, as if the damage was happening 
directly to them (before the designated individu-
al(s) do their own resistance rolls). Their own stats, 
skills, and attributes are used to resist the damage. 
Every three boxes of Physical or Stun damage suf-
fered by the magician in this way generate one 
Protection Magic Point that must be used before 
the end of the next Combat Turn. 
Protection Magic Points generated by noble 
sacrifice can be used in any of the following ways, 
in any combination:
• Increase the Force of a non-offensive spell 
or ritual being cast by one per point; this can 
exceed twice the caster’s Magic Rating.
• Reduce the amount of drain a Health spell 
inflicts by one per point, to a minimum of 0.
• Increase the Force of a summoned spirit by 
one per point.
Additionally, if the magician has not attacked 
an enemy this round, they receive +4 dice to Spell-
casting, Counterspelling, and Ritual Spellcasting 
tests using Protection Magic Points. 
HARMONIOUS DEFENSE
A character with harmonious defense has learned 
the ability to use their connection to magic to shield 
themselves and others from hostile magic. When 
the adept declares that they will use harmonious 
defense (a Free Action), they receive a dice pool 
equal to their Willpower + Magic + initiate grade, 
which can be used in the same fashion as spell de-
fense dice from the Counterspelling skill. Note that 
whenever an adept uses harmonious defense, they 
automatically begin perceiving astrally. 
HARMONIOUS 
REFLECTION
Harmonious reflection is the adept version of the 
reflection metamagic. Instead of using the Counter-
spelling Skill, however, the adept focuses their own 
magic and discipline to counter offensive magic. 
If an adept using harmonious defense sees that 
they or those they’re protecting with spell defense 
are being targeted by a spell, they can use an In-
terrupt Action to protect the group instead. With 
each reflection, the adept uses up 1 die from the 
harmonious defense dice pool. If no more har -
monious defense dice remain, then harmonious 
defense cannot be used. Using harmonious reflec-
tion is described below.
HARMONIOUS REFLECTION
INTERRUPT ACTION
(–5 INITIATIVE SCORE)
Prerequisite: Harmonious Defense,  
Way of Unified Mana (Hapsum-Do)
With this action, the adept can use Willpower 
+ Magic [Astral] versus the caster’s Spellcasting 
test. If the reflecting adept scores more hits than 
the spellcaster, the spell is redirected back at the 
caster at half the spell’s Force, and the original tar-
get takes no damage. The reflecting adept suffers 
drain as if they had used a Reckless Spellcasting 
action to cast it (increasing the customary drain by 
3). This reflected spell only affects the caster, re-
gardless of whether it was an area-effect spell or 
not. Treat the net hits in reflecting as Spellcasting 
hits, as if the adept were a magician and had actu-
ally cast it. This would add to any net hits from the 
original Spellcasting test. If the adept does not get 
more hits than the caster, then the spell hits as if 
the magician didn’t attempt to defend against it. If 
the adept instead takes –8 to their initiative score 
and uses 1 Edge, then the spell is reflected back at 
the caster at full strength, rather than half.
EXPANDED 
ASPECTS
While the three standard aspected magicians 
(conjurer, sorcerer, and enchanter) are well 
known, they shouldn’t be thought of as the be-all 
end-all of options. Three of these “lost” aspects 
follow, plus a brief note of the Aware, the least 
magically active of all.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
46    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 47 =====
THE APPRENTICE
(PURCHASED AS A  
NORMAL ASPECTED MAGICIAN)
Once known as shamanic adepts, dating back 
to when they were first discovered in 201 1, the 
rise of the Universal Magic Theory, and the spread 
of mentors beyond shamanic circles, led to a re-
naming that continues to be debated in academic 
circles. More interesting is that there are some ap-
prentices who have never had a mentor, instead 
following a tradition that doesn’t invoke them, 
such as psionicist. Regardless of the philosophi-
cal side, the thaumaturgical side of this aspect is 
quite well known. Apprentices may cast a single 
category of spells (Combat, Health, etc.), summon 
a single type of spirit (air, beast, etc.) appropriate 
to their tradition, and have astral perception. This 
puts them in a middle ground between conjurers 
and sorcerers, with the vast majority matching 
their access to the bonuses provided by a men-
tor. Thus, someone who can summon water spirits 
is well-served following the Sea, while one who 
casts healing spells is helped by following Bear. An 
apprentice is not required to take the Mentor Spirit 
quality, but most do all the same. 
THE ENCHANTER 
(OPTIONAL)
(PRIORITY C: MAGIC 5, ONE RATING 4 
MAGICAL SKILL GROUP)
Familiar to most magicians as “just talismon-
gers,” enchanters are, in fact, one type of aspect-
ed magician, just one that tends to avoid the dan-
gerous life of a shadowrunner in order to shine as 
a sort of a support network for other magicians. 
In addition to talismongers, some find work as al-
chemists, others as artisans and craftsmen whose 
work contains a magical quality, and still others 
undertake a dangerous life of questing after re-
agents, training themselves as dangerous com-
batants who also happen to have a magical trick 
in their back pocket. In particular, several people 
who hunt paracritters, up to and including dragon 
slayers, are often enchanters behind all the bris-
tling weaponry. Enchanters cannot cast spells, 
summon spirits, or astrally project, but they have 
a Magic Rating and may use skills from the En-
chanting skill group and related abilities such as 
searching for reagents. They may also use astral 
perception. This quality may be selected in place 
of the normal aspected enchanter for this priority 
level at the discretion of the gamemaster.
THE EXPLORER
(PRIORITY C, MAGIC 5,  
TWO RATING 6 MAGICAL SKILLS)
Perhaps the most overlooked mages of all, 
explorers possess the rare ability of astral pro-
jection, as well as astral perception. The bravest 
of them serve as trailblazers, testing the limits of 
the metaplanes, but many simply serve as astral 
protectors, selling their services to guard areas or 
provide personal astral protection. Most consider 
the astral plane to be a fun place to explore as a 
hobby, but they focus more on their mundane life. 
While the explorer has neither spirits at their beck 
ASPECTED AWAKENED ABILITIES
TYPE CONJURING SPELLCASTING POWERS ENCHANTING PROJECTION PERCEPTION
Full Magician X X — X X X
Mystic Adept X X X — — X
Adept — — X — — †
Apprentice * * — — — X
Enchanter — — — X — X
Explorer — — — — X X
Aware — — — — — X
† Physical adepts do not gain astral perception by default, but they may take it as an adept power.
* Apprentices may cast spells from only one category of spell and may summon only one category of spirits.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    47
===== PDF PAGE IDX 48 =====
MENTOR TABLE
MENTOR SPELLS HERMETIC SHAMAN
Bear Health Man Earth
Cat Illusion Water Air
Dog Detection Air Water
Dragonslayer Combat Fire Beasts
Eagle Detection Air Air
Fire-Bringer Manipulation Fire Ma
Mountain Health Earth Earth
Rat Manipulation Earth Beasts
Raven Manipulation Air Ma
Sea Detection Water Water
Seducer Illusion Fire Man
Shark Combat Water Beasts
Snake Detection Man Water
Thunderbird Combat Air Air
Wise Warrior Combat Fire Man
Wolf Combat Earth Beasts
Berserker Combat Fire Beasts
Chaos Illusion Water Air
Peacemaker Detection Air Water
Oracle Detection Fire Water
Adversary Manipulation Man Man
Alligator Combat Man Water
Bat Detection Air Air
Monkey Manipulation Man Man
Boar Combat Earth Beasts
Giraffe Detection Air Earth
Dolphin Health Water Water
Whale Detection Water Water
Horse Health Air Earth
Raccoon Manipulation Earth Beasts
Spider Illusion Man Air
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
48    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 49 =====
and call nor the power of spellcasting, their vast 
experience in the astral realm often leaves them 
extremely dangerous, doubly so when facing the 
more typical mage who has never developed their 
own skills in astral combat. 
THE AWARE
(PRIORITY D; MAGIC 3,  
ONE RATING 4 MAGICAL SKILL)
While most “sparks” have so little magic that 
they’re not worth consideration, one type, the 
aware, are. The aware have astral perception as 
their lone magical ability, a truly minor ability that 
nonetheless sets them higher than the truly mun-
dane. The aware have been known for ages as read-
ers of auras, palms, or other forms of psychome-
try, but simply being able to see magical activity is 
power enough to serve them as researchers, ob-
serving the magic used by others and taking note. 
The largest place for them, by far, is in the world 
of security, serving in personal security details to 
ensure no magic is used to influence negotiations, 
to keep an eye out for spiritual intrusion, or to di-
rect security details against enchanted intruders. 
Several have found a place as musicians as well, as 
being able to read the emotional state of a crowd 
and adjusting their performance to it is a signifi-
cant asset.
NEW SPELLS
BRANCH
MANIPULATION SPELL (PHYSICAL)
Type: P   Range: LOS
Duration: S   Drain: F – 2
VINES
MANIPULATION SPELL  
(PHYSICAL, AREA)
Type: P   Range: LOS (A)
Duration: S   Drain: F – 1
THORN
MANIPULATION SPELL (PHYSICAL)
Type: P   Range: LOS
Duration: S   Drain: F
ROSEBUSH
MANIPULATION SPELL (PHYSICAL, AREA)
Type: P   Range: LOS (A)
Duration: S   Drain: F + 2
These spells are used by the spellcaster to con-
jure plant life and bind the target with branches or 
vines that spring from the ground. Every net hit re-
duces the target’s Agility by 1. If Agility is reduced 
to 0, the target is constricted by the plants and un-
able to move or use their limbs. Bound targets may 
still defend and dodge against attacks, but they 
suffer a dice-pool modifier equal to the caster’s 
net hits. A bound target may attempt to break free 
of the plants by making an Opposed Test, pitting 
Strength + Body against the spell’s Force x 2.
Branch and Thorn work on single targets, while 
Vines and Thornbush are area spells. 
Thorn and Rosebush have the additional effect 
of damaging the target. At the end of every Com-
bat Turn, including the one in which the target was 
bound, these spells inflict damage equal to the net 
hits of the spell, with an AP of –(spell’s Force). 
GROWTH
MANIPULATION SPELL (PHYSICAL)
Type: P   Range: LOS
Duration: S   Drain: F + 3
The growth spell causes the target’s physical at-
tributes to grow (and if the caster desires, the tar -
get grows larger as well). For every three net hits 
(minimum 1), the target’s Body, Agility, Reflex, and 
Strength temporarily increases by 1 for as long as 
the spell is maintained.  If the caster desires the 
target to grow physically larger as well, the target 
grows half a meter for every three nets hits. 
LASH
COMBAT SPELL (INDIRECT)
Type: P  Range: LOS   Damage: P
Duration: I  Drain: F
SLASH
COMBAT SPELL (INDIRECT, AREA)
Type: P  Range: LOS (A) Damage: P
Duration: I  Drain: F + 3
Depending on the mage’s tradition, Lash can 
manifest as a whip, a tentacle, a vine, or even a 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    49
===== PDF PAGE IDX 50 =====
stream of water. No matter the form, however, 
Lash stretches across the divide between cast-
er and target, striking them with incredible force. 
For every two boxes of unresisted physical dam-
age this spell does, the target also takes one box 
of stun damage. Lash affects a single target, while 
Slash affects an area. 
CLAW
COMBAT SPELL (INDIRECT)
Type: P  Range: LOS  Damage: P
Duration: I  Drain: F 
BARRAGE
COMBAT SPELL (INDIRECT, AREA)
Type: P  Range: LOS (A) Damage: P
Duration: I  Drain: F + 3
The Claw and Barrage spells manifest sharp 
shards of mana resembling claws (or talons, 
nails, spikes, etc.) that tear into the target, rend-
ing armor and flesh alike. The damage value for 
this spell is reduced by 2, but the AP rating is in-
creased by 4. 
MULTIPLY FOOD
HEALTH SPELL (ESSENCE)
Type: P    Range: T
Duration: Permanent  Drain: F – 2
Multiply Food allows the spellcaster to effec-
tively make copies of any food that she or he is 
touching. This food is not created from mana, but 
rather, the space around the food is altered to mag-
ically speed up and duplicate the natural process-
es which produced it. For each hit on the spellcast-
ing test, whatever food is touched by the caster is 
multiplied by ten. That is, one soyburger becomes 
ten soyburgers, two loafs of bread becomes twen-
ty, and so on. Food that has been duplicated in this 
manner cannot be duplicated again. 
COMET
COMBAT SPELL  
(INDIRECT, AREA, ELEMENTAL)
Type: P  Range: LOS (A) Damage: P
Duration: I  Drain: F
Comet creates a flaming ball of earth that ap-
pears above the targets and slams into them with 
a violent explosion. The melting earth acts as both 
fire damage and acid damage (p. 1 70, SR5). Only 
the associated effects, not the damage itself, may 
be mitigated by fire or acid resistance.
GRAVITY
MANIPULATION SPELL (PHYSICAL)
Type: P  Range: LOS
Duration: S  Drain: F + 1
GRAVITY WELL
MANIPULATION SPELL  
(PHYSICAL, AREA)
Type: P  Range: LOS (A)
Duration: S  Drain: F + 3
Gravity spells alter the fundamental forces of 
the universe around the targets, magically apply -
ing gravitational force to them like that of far more 
massive objects. Every net hit results in a dice pool 
modifier of –1 for all actions connected to Physical 
attributes the target takes, including Initiative rolls. 
If the penalty to the target’s dice pool is great-
er than their Strength attribute, the gravity is too 
strong and they are unable to move. Bound targets 
may still defend and dodge against attacks, but 
they suffer a dice-pool modifier equal to the cast-
er’s net hits. Targets of Gravity spells may make a 
Strength + Body Test with a threshold of the cast-
er’s net hits to break free, but they only can make 
this test after being held motionless for a Combat 
Turn. Even if they succeed in this test, the dice-
pool modifier remains. Gravity affects a single tar-
get, while Gravity Well affects an area (including 
the caster and allies, if applicable). 
EVIL EYE
DIRECT COMBAT 
Type: M  Range: LOS
Duration: I  Drain: F – 3
Legends of the evil eye usually take the form of 
a curse upon a person, causing them misfortune. In 
this case, the Evil Eye is a mental attack causing the 
opponent indecision. Net hits from this attack re-
duce an opponent’s initiative score. The opponent 
feels the attack with psychosomatic dread (hairs on 
the back of the neck standing up, fear in the pit of 
their stomach, etc.). Each net hit on the Spellcasting 
test decreases the target’s initiative score by 1.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
50    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 51 =====
ALTER BALLISTICS
MANIPULATION SPELL, PHYSICAL
Type: P  Range: T
Duration: I  Drain: (F—2)
The Alter Ballistics spell is a spell unique to 
the Alchemical Armorer that allows them to al-
ter the ballistic properties of bullets or add help-
ful effects like noise reduction. This spell only 
works as an alchemical preparation that uses a 
bullet as the lynchpin. Bullets used as a lynchpin 
may only be fired by Single Shot weapons. The 
preparation must be activated before it is fired 
or the lynchpin will be destroyed by firing the 
bullet. When using a command trigger, a charac-
ter may choose to activate a single preparation 
normally (with a Simple Action) or any number 
of bullets (including all of them) at a time with 
a Complex Action. When activated, the prepa-
ration lasts for a number of minutes equal to 
the Force of the preparation. When crafting the 
lynchpin, the character must specify and make 
a record of the effects they would like the bul-
let to have, in order, from most desired to least 
desired. When the preparation is activated, each 
net hit will add the listed properties to the bullet 
in the specified order until net hits or the list of 
chosen effects is exhausted.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    51
===== PDF PAGE IDX 52 =====
LIST OF EFFECTS
1. Double weapon range (changing all catego-
ries of range modifiers).
2. –4 dice pool modifier to Perception tests to 
notice gunfire.
3. +1 Accuracy.
4. Deformation Resistance: –2 AP, –1 DV. Defor -
mation-resistant bullets do not deform when fired 
or upon impact, which inflicts a –4 dice pool penal-
ty to any Armorer tests to identify the weapon that 
fired the bullet. Cannot be used with hollow-point 
ammunition. 
5. Increased Deformation: +2 AP, +1 DV. Cannot 
be used with APDS.
6. Astral signature fade time reduced by 50 
percent.
7. Impact Dispersion: Reduces the Physical limit 
of a character by 2 when comparing it to the DV to 
determine knockdown.
8. Frangible: Treat any barrier the ammo hits as if 
its Armor were twice normal.
NEW RITUALS
FOREST 
TRANSFORMATION 
(ANCHORED)
Like the Shapeshifting spell, this ritual changes 
the type of non-Awakened tree growing in a lo-
cation. The area affected is Force x 100 meters. 
The type of tree that it can be changed into is any 
other non-Awakened tree known to the leader. 
This ritual was used to transform the pine woods 
of Ireland to the diverse forests of Tír na nÓg. 
When the ritual ends, the trees have changed 
permanently. The number of hits from the ritual 
determines the number of trees within the area 
that are transformed. The transformation is per -
manent, though if the climate doesn’t agree with 
the tree, it will die over time.
Ritual takes (Force) hours to complete.
NECRO SUMMONING
(MINION) RITUAL
This ritual is similar to homunculus and corpse ca-
davre, but instead fills the dead or inanimate ob-
jects with spirits from the Dominion of the Black. 
Necro Summoning changes the nature of the 
thing inhabited, including fire, earth, or plants. 
Unlike a corpse cadavre, a dead body (meta-
human or otherwise) retains no knowledge of its 
former life, nor any of its skills. It is just a shell for 
inhabitation, raw material to use on our plane. Use 
the Force of the spirit for any skill ratings the spir -
it has. A necromantic spirit will last for a number 
of days equal to net hits on the Sealing test times 
the sum of the participants’ Magic ratings. Net hits 
cannot be used to raise more necro spirits. Once 
the number of days is over, the necro spirit exits 
the form it was using; if the form was corporeal, 
it becomes a shapeless mass. Necro mages may 
summon a number of necro spirits equal to their 
(Magic Rating – 6, minimum 1). Each spirit that 
is under the control of the necro mage reduces 
the effective Magic Rating of the mage by 1. So 
if a necro mage has Magic 8, but has two spirits 
summoned, they will only be able to use magic 
as if they had a Magic Rating of 6 until the spirits 
spend out their time. They cannot be voluntarily 
dismissed. 
The stats for necro spirits are below. In order 
to use necro summoning, an appropriate vessell 
must be available—an animal carcass, metahuman 
corpse, dead tree, or sufficient quantity of ashes 
or dust.
NECRO SPIRITS
CARCASS SPIRIT
(REQUIRES DEAD ANIMAL CARCASS)
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+3 F F F+2 F F F F–1 F / 2 F F
Physical 
Initiative
(F x 2) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Perception, Unarmed 
Combat
Powers Animal Control, Astral Form, Deathly Aura, 
Enhanced Senses: Hearing, Enhanced Senses: 
Low-Light Vision, Enhanced Senses: Smell, 
Fear, Immunity to Normal Weapons, Immunity 
to Pathogens, Immunity to Toxins, Movement, 
Possession, Sapience
Optional Powers Concealment, Confusion, Guard, Natural 
Weapon, Noxious Breath, Paralyzing Touch, 
Search, Venom
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
52    MAGIC MASTERY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 53 =====
CORPSE SPIRIT
(REQUIRES CORPSE OF METAHUMAN)
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+2 F–1 F+2 F – 2 F F F+1 F–1 F / 2 F F
Physical 
Initiative
((F x 2) + 2) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Perception, Unarmed 
Combat 
Powers Accident, Astral Form, Concealment, Confusion, 
Deathly Aura, Enhanced Senses (Low-Light, 
Thermographic Vision), Guard, Immunity to 
Normal Weapons, Immunity to Pathogens, 
Immunity to Toxins, Influence, Possession, 
Sapience, Search
Optional Powers Concealment, Confusion, Fear, Guard, 
Movement, Noxious Breath, Paralyzing Touch, 
Psychokinesis, Search
ROT SPIRIT 
(REQUIRES DEAD PLANT, TREE, ETC.)
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+3 F–2 F F+1 F F–1 F F–1 F/2 F F
Physical 
Initiative
(F x 2) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Counterspelling, 
Exotic Ranged Weapon, Perception, Unarmed 
Combat 
Powers Astral Form, Concealment, Confusion, Deathly 
Aura, Engulf, Fear, Guard, Immunity to Normal 
Weapons, Immunity to Pathogens, Immunity to 
Toxins, Magical Guard, Possession, Sapience, 
Silence
Optional Powers Accident, Confusion, Movement, Noxious 
Breath, Paralyzing Touch, Search
PALEFIRE SPIRIT
(REQUIRES LARGE AMOUNT  
OF ASHES FROM A DEAD FIRE)
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+2 F+1 F+3 F–2 F F F+1 F–1 F/2 F F
Physical 
Initiative
((F x 2) + 3) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Exotic Ranged 
Weapon, Flight, Perception, Unarmed Combat 
Powers Accident, Astral Form, Confusion, Elemental 
Attack, Deathly Aura, Engulf, Immunity to Normal 
Weapons, Immunity to Pathogens, Immunity to 
Toxins, Possession, Sapience
Optional Powers Fear, Guard, Noxious Breath, Paralyzing Touch, 
Search
DETRITUS SPIRIT
(REQUIRES LARGE AMOUNT  
OF DUST OR LIFELESS EARTH)
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+5 F–3 F-1 F+4 F F–1 F F–1 F/2 F F
Physical 
Initiative
((F x 2) – 1) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Exotic Ranged 
Weapon, Perception, Unarmed Combat 
Powers Astral Form, Binding, Deathly Aura, Guard, 
Immunity to Normal Weapons, Immunity to 
Pathogens, Immunity to Toxins, Possession, 
Sapience, Search
Optional Powers Elemental Attack, Engulf, Fear, Paralyzing Touch, 
Search
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< MAGIC MASTERY    53
===== PDF PAGE IDX 54 =====
TEA & SYMPATHY
The sounds of their bickering could be heard through the thick, 
real oak doors of the Taoist temple. Even from across its expanse. 
Even to human ears. But the thing that smiled to himself had not 
been human for a very, very long time.
The vast creak and clatter of metal fittings announced the 
arrival of his students, even if one of them thought he was the 
teacher. Red dropped his voluminous hood, shaking off the 
ash-tainted rain, while the younger one, EB, closed a clear plastic 
umbrella with LED lining its outer rim. She seemed about to say 
something to him before she paused, turning to take in the vast 
chamber, a long stretch flanked by great pillars, hung with silks 
and censers that made the air heavy with scented smoke. The 
shadows in the ceiling and between the pillars gave the impres-
sion of a great, unknown space overhead, so that the warm abyss 
might be as big as a cathedral. Across the room, three great stat-
ues, each taller than a troll, sat on golden thrones. And standing 
between two of them, lighting fresh coals with a flame at the end 
of one long, black talon, the Incense Master of the Yellow Lotus 
Triad, Su Cheng.
EB hesitated before she followed Red, trying to match his ca-
sual stride. She wasn’t used to feeling humbled by a place. The 
smoke, the hangings, even the way the red carpet muffled her 
boot steps—the whole of the place seemed to swallow her, mak-
ing her feel minute. More than that, from the moment she had 
crossed the threshold, she felt the aspect of the place. It was as 
sudden as stepping out of a crisp, cool night and into a sauna. 
Even through the thick blanket of mana, she could feel the vast 
power of the figure before her, contained only barely by his mask-
ing. She wondered if even mundanes could feel it when they en-
tered this place. Would it inspire awe? Would they call it faith? 
Blinking the sting from her eyes, she approached the lone fig-
ure in the temple. Just ahead of her, Red bowed low and spoke. It 
was as though the smoke absorbed the sound.
“Good evening, Great Master.”
The Incense Master turned, a broad, open smile greeting 
them. His eyes cast a sickly yellow glow in the hanging fog, and 
his canines were already extended. Among some Infected circles 
she had run with, that was either a sign of trust or dominance. 
Given his status, and seeing his power, she hoped for the former.
“Richard! And you bring your young friend.” Su Cheng’s voice 
creaked like an old tenement on the verge of collapse, words feign-
ing false surprise and false frailty. He turned to them, folding his 
hands together under the great volume of his heavy silken robes. 
“I appreciate you taking the time.”
The elder vampire dismissed Red’s words with a wave, de-
scending the steps to stand closer than EB liked. He extended 
a talon under her chin, lifting it to look into her eyes. His hands, 
his smile, his words were like knives, and she knew instinctively 
that he spilled blood with all three. His grin deepened, and she 
felt defiance rise in her like sickness. She jerked free, scowling 
54    >> TEA & SYMPATHY  <<
===== PDF PAGE IDX 55 =====
TEA & SYMPATHY
at him. He cackled, the light in his eyes dimming, and he turned 
and walked to a side room. With a casual pass of his hand, the 
pressure seemed to diminish, and she drew a long, quiet breath 
before following.
Past a lacquered door, a hallway lined with chambers on ei-
ther side, a glance through their curtains showing an esoteric col-
lection of knicknacks: a tea set and pillows behind one, a suit of 
mil-spec armor standing on display behind another. And then the 
hallway opened to a sprawling, empty space. The floor was soft 
underneath, like at a gym or dojo, the walls clear of ornamenta-
tion or clutter. Only a single row of pillars bordered the space on 
all sides. Here, the pressure was all but gone, no more present 
than the lingering incense on her clothes. 
Su Cheng turned, suddenly, his yellowed smile hideously 
wide. 
He’s just one of us, she reminded herself. He’s just old. I can take 
care of myself. I know what he is. 
She almost reminded herself that Red would never let the el-
der vampire hurt her, but just the beginning of the thought frus-
trated her. Fear wasn’t her style. 
“But ignorance is?”
She looked at the amber-eyed monster. 
“Does listening to this stupid lesson mean I have to deal with 
having you in my mind?”
Su Cheng’s expression softened, and he lowered his gaze 
modestly. “I am sorry. Your thoughts are simply so loud. Can you 
blame the neighbor when your voice carries so far?”
She blinked. “You can’t just read minds. We don’t do that. You 
have to want to. You have to cast a spell.”
“It is not a spell, simply your aura.”
“I can see auras, too, you know. I don’t see how you could 
make out something I don’t.”
Red, looking at the floor, grinned. “Precisely why I brought 
you here.”
Su Cheng held a single finger before Red, silencing him, his 
eyes never leaving EB’s. He studied her for a moment before 
turning away. 
“Richard tells me you paint, yes?”
She glanced at Red. The chatty vampire was quieter than 
she’d ever seen him.
“Yeah.”
“And he tells me you do not fully comprehend the idea of 
traditions?”
She scoffed. “I ‘comprehend’ them just fine. I—”
A single finger again, held where she could see it. Her mouth 
stopped before she chose to start speaking, but she felt no spell. 
“Forgive me, I misspoke.” He turned, and his expression was 
calm, moderate. He exuded contemplation. “You do not respect 
the differences in perspective. Rick only mentioned magic. I in-
ferred that it encompassed much more.”
>> TEA & SYMPATHY  <<    55
BY KEVIN CZARNECKI
===== PDF PAGE IDX 56 =====
He laughed, warm and affable, and waved a hand. Through the 
ether and astral, energy coiled into color, otherworldly mass into 
shape, and Su Cheng stood next to EB, waving his hands much like 
people did with manual VR. The colors separated into three blobs, 
like floating paint: yellow, red, blue.
“What do you see?”
She glanced at Red. He only stood there with his hands in his 
jeans pockets, smiling and nodding for her to answer.
“I see the three primary colors.”
“Indeed! Three colors that no other color could mix to make, 
yet which can be combined to create any other color in the spec-
trum of regular human vision.” As he spoke, his hands wove pat-
terns lazily, and the globes split as though in zero-g, each break-
ing into dozens of smaller bubbles of different sizes, mixing and 
matching until the dozens represented varying shades like a wa-
tercolor palette. 
He continued. “You see the way colors can be combined. You 
see the root of new things that will be from the components of 
what are. Some cannot see that.”
…
“So?”
He smirked. “Perhaps we try this …”
He wove his hands again, and the colors split wildly, recom-
posing themselves into new shapes, until the blues had taken on 
the form of the coat of a young girl, the shades of water behind 
her, the deep of her eyes. The yellows into hats and hair, the reds 
into hats and blossoms.
“Do you know this work?”
EB didn’t hesitate. “Two Sisters, Renoir, 1881.” She said it 
without any attitude. She didn’t notice Red blink in surprise.  
“Good,” Su Cheng said, weaving his hands again until the colors 
had melted and reformed into a great image of a soup can.
“It’s from 1962. Andy Warhol.”
Again the colors shifted.
“Girl with a Pearl Earring, Vermeer.” A note of impatience had 
crept into her tone.
“What do they make you feel?”
She scoffed. “What is this, a visit to a shrink? Or just an art ap-
preciation society? Who cares what I think of it?”
Su Cheng had moved behind the displays, and he now walked 
through them, the illusions warping and disappearing around him 
like colorful smoke. His eyes were no longer friendly. She cringed 
involuntarily but held her ground.
“Because, young one, I read the colors of your aura like you 
might read the swirls of paint, and I knew everything about you 
from the moment you arrived based on nothing more than that.”
EB met his eyes. “So you’ve got a lot of practice reading auras. 
Great. Guess I’ll work on that.”
The slightest growl escaped his lips, and she paled.
“Listen, girl. Listen.”
He turned away, and the colors bled back into the air. Again, 
the Renoir.
“What do you see?”
She blinked, stammered. “I—I see two girls sitting by a lake.”  
“No. What do you see?”
“I see the dilution of color and the scatter of details in the flow-
ers and trees around the lake. I see the diffused borders around 
the subjects. Abstracts. The less you focus on it, the clearer it is.”
“Mmmm. Richard?”
Red looked up, startled. “What?”
“What do you see?”
“Um … Isn’t this for—”
“What do you see?” Su Cheng’s tone brooked no argument.
Red took a deep breath, hissing it out as he squinted at the 
image, thinking. 
“The blue of the coat and the red of the hat. You can make out 
the textures of the coat from the shades of blue. They’re subtle, 
but they work really well. All the boldest colors surround the older 
girl’s face, which is right at the center. It draws the focus there.”
“Good.” The color melted like dyes in water. Su Cheng clasped 
his hands within the sleeves of his robe, shifting his gaze between 
them. “EB. What is the difference between the way you saw it, and 
how Richard sees it?”
She glanced at Red, uncertain. “I see the whole picture.”
“What? I see the whole thing. I just focus on the points that 
draw the eye.”
She grimaced. “I’m not  saying you aren’t seeing the whole 
thing. What I am saying is that you didn’t even mention the 
rest of it. You went right to the center, right to the bold stuff.”  
“You didn’t describe the girls at all. It’s called Two Sisters, right?”
“You have to take in the whole picture!” Red was gesturing 
now. “But there’s a point to the picture, the dressing is just …”
Su Cheng cut them off with a gesture, his spell dousing their 
argument. Even then, it took them a second to stop mouthing their 
quarrels before they even noticed. They looked at him, glowering. 
The elder vampire lowered his claw, and the effect vanished.
“You are both correct. You are both seeing things through your 
own lens, your own perspective. That does not invalidate what 
you see. But if you listened to each other instead of proving your 
point, you would learn more about each other. And you would 
understand how the other thinks. You would see how to work with 
them … or defeat them.”
✖
They sat on soft pillows in a chamber of burning orange silks and 
black, thick-lacquered wood, subtle inlays of lotuses worked ev-
erywhere in fine gold leaf. Su Cheng poured thick, alchemically 
treated blood into three cups. It streamed as smooth and hot as if 
from a fresh wound. 
“A tradition is simply a paradigm. It is the way you interpret 
magic.”
EB licked a spiced crimson drop from her lips. “Yeah, I know 
that. I’m not saying one tradition is better than another.”
“Of course. But do you recognize the value of traditions aside 
from your own?”
Her eyes flicked upward in thought. “I guess? I mean, hermet-
ics tend to think of things in a logical way, right? But shamans tend 
to be better with spirits.”
Su Cheng nodded, savoring the scent of the hot blood from his 
cup. “Quite often. Not always, of course. What is your tradition?”
“Asatru.”
“Ah, Norse! Do you follow a god?”
“Loki,” Red said with a grin. EB narrowed her eyes at him.
“I suspected as much.”
“How?” EB asked. “My aura?”
“By how you saw the painting.”
“How could you do that?”
He smiled as he looked up from his sip. “A follower of Yggdrasil 
56    >> TEA & SYMPATHY  <<
===== PDF PAGE IDX 57 =====
would have focused on the plants entirely, Odin on the girls as 
people. Balder would have noted the smile, Frigg their beauty, and 
so on. Loki is a god of chaos and margins, blurred lines.”
“But wait,” Red said, setting down his cup. “You could just as 
easily have said the smile is mischievous, or Frigg might see that 
smile as romantic.”
“And who would worship a tree?” EB arched a brow, smirking.
Su Cheng traced a claw along one of the golden lotus leaves, 
scratching a small coil of gold before it. “Some find guidance from 
all kinds of sources. British Druids often feel the call of a guiding 
spirit that takes the form of trees or stars.” He ignored Red’s state-
ment entirely.
“That seems kind of silly.”
“Any more ridiculous than obeying the edicts of a god said to 
bring about the end of the world?”
EB gritted her teeth to hold back a snarl. 
“Of course, Universal Magic Theory says that mentor arche-
types are more like Jungian—”
“You hold to a god who called to you,” Su Cheng said, ignoring 
Red’s words. Red pursed his lips. 
“So my god is real?”
“Your god is your god. You believe it is real. Does the belief 
make the god, or does the god inspire the belief? Is magic proof 
of its existence, or is your tradition simply your way of under -
standing a universe that is too big to fit into a little human brain?”
“You talk about it like it’s an operating system.”
“For a computer? Yes, very much like that. Ones and zeros be-
come icons and sounds and games and dating apps.” EB grinned 
as Su Cheng returned to his drink. It was cute to imagine this old 
man, older than even his aged form suggested, playing AR games 
or skimming a dating app. Then again, she used them to hunt 
sometimes, too.
Red nodded. “That’s the same thing UMT tries to do. Find the 
underlying—”
“Of course,” Su Cheng interrupted again, “some will argue 
over which faith is true and which is not. Some psychics, for exam-
ple, believe they are the only ones who are right, and all ideas of 
mentor spirits, religion, or even sorcery itself, are mental crutches 
used by weaker minds bound to superstition.”
EB scoffed. “I’d like to see them say that to a vampire. Or a troll, 
for that matter. How far up your own ass can you be?”
The elder shrugged. “We must all have our beliefs, and some 
beliefs only exist to attack others.”
Red grimaced. “Well, that’s not necessarily—”
“Young lady, you might find the writings of—”
“Why do you keep interrupting me?”
Su Cheng did not spare him a glance. “—Schwartzkopf quite 
enlightening. 27 Facets, in particular, suggests there is far more to 
Universal Magic Theory than a reductionist-”
“Why are you ignoring me?”
Finally, Su Cheng turned his gaze to Red. EB looked over to see 
Red’s eyes blazing, his fangs ever so slightly extended. Su Cheng 
looked back to EB and gestured at the enraged man.
“Tell me what you see, EB.”
“Um …”
Red’s crimson stare flicked to her before he closed them, took 
a deep, calming breath, and exhaled, opening his now normal, 
blue eyes. She continued.
“You kept ignoring him or interrupting him.”
“Yes. Do you know what his tradition is?”
“Black magic, right?”
Red sighed, and Su Cheng chuckled. “In the ’60s it was called 
Black Magic. Now, Black Magic has become something a bit dif-
ferent, while Richard’s tradition is more a schism.”
“So we call it Dark Magic. Which is just as melodramatic. 
Which is the point.”
“Right,” she said.
“So, EB, how does Dark Magic work?”
“I… honestly don’t know. I never asked.”
Su Cheng looked at Red, who hesitated, unsure if he would be 
interrupted, before explaining.
“We use a combination of ecstatic will to power and exacting 
ritual forms that focus on …” Red’s eyes went wide, and he looked 
pained as he continued, “… impressing our desires onto the mag-
ical world.”
“What?” EB looked confused. “What is it?”
Su Cheng smiled at her. “His tradition is based around his ego. 
The tradition fits the personality of the person, and Richard de-
spises being ignored. He hates not being taken seriously.”
“Yeah, I knew that. How does that help me?”
The elder looked back to her, his hands folded on the table.
“When you know how someone thinks, you know how to ma-
nipulate them. It took no more than a minor annoyance to drive 
Richard to shouting. His tradition demands recognition. So does 
he. He uses up a tactic completely, then moves to the next, more 
and more frustrated when something doesn’t work the first time. 
He attacks in a straight line, direct and clear. You? I expect you 
revel in confusion and disorder. Disguises, distractions, chaos and 
seduction.”
EB leaned back, impressed. “Whoa.”
“Tradition is more than a paradigm of magic. It is a way of 
thought, a path that reflects the one who walks it.”
✖
They walked to the door together, Red trailing behind EB and Su 
Cheng. It seemed the Incense Master had taken a shine to the girl. 
As long as she didn’t start hanging around him (and his syndicate) 
more often, it shouldn’t be a problem. Still, he had to worry about 
the connection he had made.
More than that, he wondered at his own predictability. At his 
rising to the bait. Was he really so easily manipulated? If he were 
someone else, looking from the outside in, would he like who he 
saw?
The door opened, and EB hesitated before stepping out into 
the fog following the rains. 
“I never did ask … what is your tradition?”
Su Cheng smiled. “I follow the path of Wuxing. I study the 
bindings and connections of qi, the force of the five elements and 
life, itself.” He leaned close and whispered, “I see the margins, 
too.”
They chuckled, and she bowed low before skipping out into 
the rain-slick sheen of a Seattle Chinatown. “C’mon, Red! Let’s 
find some dinner. I’ll let you talk all night without interrupting.”
>> TEA & SYMPATHY  <<    57
===== PDF PAGE IDX 58 =====
POSTED BY: AXIS MUNDI
When magic returned to the world, it was cha-
os. Not many knew what they were doing, and 
they were often surprised when they were able 
to do even the most basic magic. Strangely, some 
of those not surprised were Daniel Howling Coy -
ote and the coalition of tribes who helped him 
perform the Great Ghost Dance in 201 7. There 
isn’t any way Howling Coyote could have come 
up with that ritual by himself. In fact, we know he 
didn’t. That ritual had been a part of his tradition 
since well before the Awakening, and was likely 
created in the Fourth World, around ten thousand 
years ago. Howling Coyote’s commitment to the 
tradition of his people changed our world forever. 
> Many would say for the better.  
> Old Crow
> Not everyone, trust me. And I don’t just mean the powers 
that be.
> Frosty
But even early on, as we all know, there was an-
other side to magic. Howling Coyote and his Na-
tive American Nations followed a shamanic path, 
but there were soon others who discovered magic 
through what came to be called the hermetic tra-
dition. Rather than follow totems and “feel” the 
magic inside them, hermetics understood magic 
to be more properly manipulated by formulae and 
logic. By the mid-twenty-first century, however, 
more than a few traditions beyond shamanism and 
hermeticism manifested, both old and new. 
> One of the earliest manifestations beyond hermeticism 
and shamanism was Christian Theurgy, although the 
disagreement about it was fierce among the church 
hierarchy. Thankfully, the church universal wasn’t, and still 
isn’t, all that unified. 
> Fianchetto
Many of these alternate traditions are as an-
cient, if not more ancient, than shamanism. They 
were forgotten, but they live again. The younger 
ones are particularly fascinating, for reasons I’ll get 
to in a moment. The point is, there continue to be 
a growing number of traditions that the finite num-
ber of mages on Earth are practicing. 
By the 2060s, the universities of Prague and Er-
furt were making their research on Unified Magic 
Theory known. The theory itself was not new to 
Prague or Erfurt, but they were essentially the first 
to systematically study it, popularize the name, 
and experiment with it. Unified Magic Theory, 
or UMT, in a nutshell states that all magic stems 
from one source, and that all traditions of magic 
are simply different paths to that truth. The an-
tecedents to this now-quite-popular theory are 
Ehran The Scribe’s The New Magic: Life After 2001, 
numerous discussions of magic on Dunkelzahn’s 
Wyrm Talks, the great dragon Schwarzkopf’s lec-
tures and classes at Charles University in Prague, 
as well as practice within the so-called Chaos 
magic tradition. 
Not all roads lead to UMT being truth, however. 
Before I upload my two nuyen’s worth on tradi-
tions, I wanted to poke a bit at the now-accepted 
wisdom of Unified Magic Theory. 
First, and perhaps most relevant to what fol-
lows, is the fact that most mages are now trained 
in a post-UMT paradigm. That is, they know of 
the theory even if they are trained in another. 
The possibilities that UMT promises, along with 
the Matrix, ever-increasing globalization, and the 
idea that most knowledge is easily obtainable, all 
point toward a future where traditions, as such, 
become less and less relevant (or necessary, or 
desirable) than they had been. But when we look 
around, that is not what is happening. The num-
ber of mages isn’t growing, percentage wise, but 
the number of traditions is. There are more tra-
ditions in practice now than there were before 
FORBIDDEN ARCANA
TRADITIONS
58    TRADITIONS >>

===== PDF PAGE IDX 59 =====
UMT began to become the default position of 
scholarly mages. I’ll share a thought about why 
this might be later. 
Second—and more research needs to be done 
here—but if UMT was truly what we have been 
told it is, then surely the great dragons of the 
world would have access to all forms of magic, 
since they have such a strong connection to mana 
and have been alive so long as to have dabbled, if 
not mastered, all of its forms. And yet once again, 
we see that this is not the case. It is a well-known 
fact that the great dragon (and former president 
of the UCAS) Dunkelzahn could not access divin-
ing magic, which explains his reliance on, and fre-
quent visits to, the Seer’s Guild. I don’t want to get 
myself in trouble, but Lofwyr also seems to share 
this reliance. If a great dragon can’t learn some-
thing but a human can, UMT has no answer for 
that. Given that Lung and other greats seem to be 
able to divine just fine, it seems that even among 
dragons, magic isn’t just one big free-for-all.
> Do mortal legs ever get tired?
> Orange Queen 
> From what?
> Glitch
> Jumping to conclusions?
> Orange Queen
Third, Dunkelzahn himself seemed to argue, if 
not against UMT, at least in favor of something UMT 
simply dismisses: faith. Some of you will remem-
ber the upload on Aztlan decades ago that caused 
such a stir. This was before JackPoint, but among 
the shadow community, it was a big deal. Some-
how, the sysop got a text conversation between 
Dunkelzahn (Big D on the Matrix) and a few others 
we are familiar with, such as The Laughing Man. In 
this upload, Big D admits that he, and his dragon 
and elf counterparts, “have striven to weaken the 
hold of faith on the human heart for generations, 
so that when magic returned they might be more 
open to it and embrace it more quickly. I believe 
we have made a terrible mistake.” The mistake, he 
went on to say, was to weaken faith, as it reduced 
everything to sterile formulae without ultimate 
meaning. We all know the Big D was a remarkable 
dragon, but to admit on one hand that the founda-
tions for UMT were draconic and elven manipula-
tion, while also admitting that the baby tossed out 
with the bathwater was actually important? That 
makes me even more leery of UMT than I was. 
> How did you get that file? Many, many people tried to 
have that convo scrubbed off the Matrix. When Crash 2.0 
hit, most assumed any remaining copies had been lost. 
> Frosty
> A new friend of mine hooked me up. 
> Axis Mundi
> Care to share who?
> Frosty.
> Hey Axis, I’d be interested in that name as we...
> NEXT 30 REPLIES DELETED
> Take the inquiries to PM.
> Bull
> Sorry, all. Not right now. But know they are a reputable 
and trustworthy primary source.
> Axis Mundi
Lastly, and this point is controversial, there was 
a hushed conversation not meant to be heard by 
mortal ears, but a small group of runners heard 
it anyway. Lugh Surehand, former prince of Tir 
Tairngire, spoke not long ago to a certain Sean 
Laverty, himself a well-respected and long-lived 
<< TRADITIONS    59

===== PDF PAGE IDX 60 =====
elf. In this conversation, they spoke of the Fourth 
World and the changes that have occurred since. 
It was a rather maudlin, wistful affair, but one bit 
stood out to me. Laverty mentioned something 
in a language I didn’t grok, but the context clued 
me into that they were speaking of beings re-
vered by ancient people in the way that some 
today worship gods. They spoke of how dragons 
knew about these beings as well. If, during a time 
of higher magic, elves and dragons followed or 
revered beings higher than themselves, who then 
empowered followers with magic ability, that is 
a paradigm shift. Unified Magic Theory doesn’t 
come close to explaining that kind of thing. Were 
these beings gods? Mentor spirits? Metaplanar 
beings? Do they still live? 
The point of all this is that there are some tra-
ditions for which UMT is a clear evolution: Her -
meticism, Chaos Magic, Wicca, Black Magic, Dru-
idism, and others—perhaps Wuxing and Psionics, 
perhaps more. Within these traditions, borrowing 
and building from other traditions seems intuitive, 
even right. But there are others, traditions that 
point beyond the user to someone or something 
else, in which this crossover doesn’t quite fit. Per -
haps the ability to become invisible might be com-
mon to shamans and hermetics, but what if the 
source is not the same? What if the intuitive and 
charismatic traditions are tapping into something 
greater than themselves or greater even than 
magic itself? It simply doesn’t follow that the abil-
ity to perform the same actions (whether fireballs, 
healings, or clairvoyance) means that the magic 
used is essentially the same. Just like the ability 
to punch through a wall doesn’t mean that adepts 
and street samurai are the same. 
Who knows? Maybe I’m wrong. Most Jack -
Pointers seem convinced I am. But I think that the 
higher the mana gets, the more traditions we will 
see. And maybe we’ll even find out which tradi-
tions are worth more than others. But until then, 
I’ll go with what the opposition party at Prague 
and Erfurt said. While the weight of scholars and 
dragons pushed toward UMT, there were others 
studying the same phenomenon who concluded 
that the best way forward wasn’t to combine all 
traditions into a new, super tradition, but instead 
to value pluralism and what diversity and a variety 
of many practices can teach us about magic and 
ourselves. 
> NEXT 457 REPLIES DELETED
> Geez, Axis. Way to stir the pot. Safe to say not everyone 
shares your beliefs.
> Bull
> My beliefs don’t require them to. 
> Axis Mundi
Okay. Enough waxing philosophical. There are 
some new traditions making waves around the 
globe, and a few traditions that have been dis-
cussed previously but have finer points that bear 
further elucidation. Here they are. 
TRADITION 
UPDATES
BLACK MAGIC (UPDATE)
DESCRIPTION (P. 44, STREET GRIMOIRE)
Many people perceive practitioners of Black Mag-
ic as evil and as destructive as Toxic or Bug Spirit 
followers, and the media haven’t helped change 
that view with their representation of magical prac-
titioners of this tradition. Technically this tradition 
is a more selfish style of magic, generally used for 
personal gain. Like everything in the shadows, it 
boils down to morality and price. So you can have 
the magician whose use of black magic involves 
nothing more than leveraging magic to live the 
good life, or the corporate executive whose use of 
black magic brings down his enemies as he climbs 
toward more power.
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS
Common choices for Black Magic have been the 
Moon (p. 98) and the Dark King (p. 98), but in the 
end practitioners can focus on any mentor spirit 
that will play into their self-interests.
IDEALS
Black Magic values the self above all else. The self 
it values is not the spirit-quest, walkabout, find-
yourself-type self, but the unfettered selfishness 
that comes from viewing yourself as the center 
of your own universe. Nothing is more important 
than you and what you can get, grab, steal, ma-
nipulate, and own. Black Magic isn’t evil, per se, 
in that it doesn’t have any grand plan to destroy 
the universe or corrupt the youth, but if you con-
sider selfishness to be evil, well, that’s what it is. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
60    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 61 =====
Power, and keeping as much of it to yourself as 
possible, is what drives Black Magic practitioners.  
SORCERY
The practice of magic is always for personal gain. 
Spells are chosen based on what the mage needs 
to further their own goals and influence others. This 
means that more often practitioners pick Manipu-
lation and Health spells over Combat. Ritual spell-
casting is used, but often with a team of one due to 
the fact there can only be one leader chosen when 
performing a ritual. There can be rare occurrences 
of teams, but then you have to question what is the 
motivation of the others besides survival.
CONJURING
Black Magic conjuring has long been associated 
with so-called “demonic forces.” This perception 
has influenced the appearance of conjured spir -
its, giving them a more frightening visage. For 
traditional Black Magic magicians, this is some-
times more than skin deep; bent to the will of the 
Magician, the spirits can have surprising abilities.
ENCHANTING
Alchemy and the creation of preparations are ac-
ceptable but are directed more toward psychologi-
cal manipulation than direct combat. Items of heal-
ing are rare, given that the magician is often trying 
to stay out of harm’s way—and to not heal any harm 
they or their minions might inflict on others.
TRADITIONAL BLACK MAGE 
RULES
Traditional practitioners of Black Magic follow 
strict rules: 
• Selfish Magic: Beneficial health spells spe-
cifically can only be cast on self instead 
of others. Cannot cast ritual health spells. 
Health preparations cannot be created with 
alchemy. The practitioner gains +2 dice to 
spellcasting or the ritual spellcasting of 
spells that the they cast on themselves.
• Receive Animal Familiar quality for free.
• Receive Dark Ally quality for free. Spirit is a 
boggle (p. 1 1 7, Howling Shadows).
• Personal Demons: Spirits summoned auto-
matically gain one of the following:
• Fear power (automatic instead of optional).
• Flight skill equal to Force.
• Natural Weaponry (DV = Strength + 2).
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Traditionally, practitioners of Black Magic don’t 
like to share what they know, and they especial-
ly don’t like to advertise it if they do. A notable 
exception is Juliette Burma. She’s based out of 
Manhattan, and a few years ago she put up a post 
on the Matrix saying she was looking for students. 
While most Black Mages are wary of those who 
advertise their commitment to the Black Arts, 
Juliette seems to have gathered quite a cadre of 
fairly competent mages. That is either very stupid 
for her or very dangerous for Manhattan. 
THE BUDDHIST 
TRADITION (UPDATED)
DESCRIPTION (P. 43, STREET GRIMOIRE)
For Buddhists in the Sixth World, magic springs 
from personal self-development and spiritual en-
lightenment. The Buddhist magical tradition main-
ly stems from one sect of Buddhism—Vajrayana or 
Tantric Buddhism, generally—as the other sects do 
not teach specific techniques related to sorcery 
and summoning and instead see magic as another 
part of reality that must be overcome to find en-
lightenment (Nirvana). Many magicians who fol-
low the Wuxing or Shinto tradition also consider 
themselves followers of Buddhism. Buddhists can 
be called yogis (or yoginis), though this is a gen-
eral term for practitioners of Southeast Asian reli-
gions including Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism. 
Traditionalists prefer the title Bodhisattva. While 
Vajrayana Buddhism originated in Tibet (which 
is now magically sealed off from the rest of the 
world), it can be found in communities throughout 
Asia, from India to Japan, and into North America, 
especially the West Coast.
BLACK MAGIC
Combat: Fire
Detection: Water
Health: Earth
Illusion: Air
Manipulation: Man
Drain: Willpower + Charisma
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Chaotic World, Control Actions, Control Thoughts, Death 
Touch, Opium Den
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    61
===== PDF PAGE IDX 62 =====
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Buddhists do not have any particular mentor spir -
its that are common to their practice, but neither 
do they discriminate against them. Buddhists 
have shown a wide diversity in mentor spirits 
when, and if, they follow one. 
IDEALS 
The teachings of Buddhism, common to all Bud-
dhists, include the “four noble truths”: 1) existence 
is suffering (dukhka); 2) the causes of suffering 
are craving and attachment (trishna); 3) the end of 
suffering can be found and is called Nirvana; and 
4) the path to Nirvana is the eightfold path: right 
views, right resolve, right speech, right action, 
right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, and 
right concentration. Buddhism teaches that reality 
is most correctly understood as process and rela-
tion instead of entity or substance.
SORCERY
The weaving of mana into spells is performed 
through the proper chanting of mantras and the 
state of mind that activity creates. The pattern of 
motion can be included as a way to focus. Some 
see it as a way of changing reality. Buddhist ritual 
spellcasting techniques are called mantras. It is a 
method of mind and body meditation incorporat-
ing qi-like channeling of mana energies.
CONJURING
Spirits summoned by a Buddhist are believed to 
be enlightened divinities that have decided to re-
main on earth out of compassion for those who 
still strive to attain Nirvana.
ENCHANTING
Bodhisattvas believe that material tools prevent 
progress on the spiritual path, therefore the cre-
ation and use of preparations, reagents, and foci 
are discouraged. Non-traditionalists allow excep-
tions as part of their progress to enlightenment. 
Reeds, lotus flowers, chalk, and other natural 
plants and earth materials can be used as re-
agents. Beads or religious items may be used as 
fetishes.
TRADITIONALIST BUDDHIST 
RULES
Traditional practitioners of Buddhism adhere to the 
following rules: 
• Cannot use the Enchanting skill group.
• Cannot use reagents or fetishes.
• Gain Barehanded Adept for free (magicians 
resist drain normally).
• Gain Spiritual Pilgrim for free.
• Gain Spiritual Lodge for free.
• Bodhisattvas must take an ordeal when initi-
ating, as there is no knowledge won without 
sacrifice.
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
In Bellingham, in the Salish-Shidhe, there is a 
Buddhist teacher called Jeremy Blue Sky. You can 
find him at the shrine he built in Sedro-Woolley. 
He doesn’t suffer any distractions, so don’t go 
see him unless you have a good amount of time 
to devote to his tutelage. Blue Sky is a full mem-
ber of the tribe and participates fully in its doings, 
but he doesn’t seem to have an agenda for his 
Buddhist devotion besides reaching Nirvana and 
teaching others to find the same. 
BUDDHISM
Combat: Air
Detection: Guidance
Health: Earth
Illusion: Fire
Manipulation: Water
Drain: Willpower + Intuition
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Hibernate, Mask, Resist Pain, Silence, Spatial Sense
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
62    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 63 =====
CHRISTIAN THEURGIST 
TRADTITION (UPDATED)
DESCRIPTION (P. 44, STREET GRIMOIRE)
Christian Theurgists, in their perspective, are 
those gifted by God with the ability to wield the 
natural energies of magic and devote their skills 
to the service of the congregation of the faith. 
While the public version of Christian Theurgy 
didn’t officially get sanction by Pope John XXV 
until 2024, secretive orders kept mystical practic-
es alive since first century Gnosticism. A few of 
these orders are listed below.
ORDER OF ST. SYLVESTER
Also known as Sylvestrines, this is an order of 
mostly Awakened metahumans that investigates 
magical phenomena for the Church. This or -
der is also publicly known for promoting magi-
cal awareness and beneficial magic such as the 
healing arts and exorcisms. A few of the order 
are not Awakened but have done much research 
into Awakened subjects such as parazoology and 
parabotany. The Order started in 1841 as an hon-
orary title for those who exceed in their duties in 
various arts, but then was reformed in 1905 with 
their present agenda of investigating magical 
phenomena. The Knights and Dames of St. Syl-
vester only became publicly known in 2025 after 
an official sanction from the Pope. 
NEW KNIGHTS TEMPLAR
The Knights Templar were originally accused of 
practicing dark magic and were almost complete-
ly destroyed in 1307. While publicly disbanded in 
1312, the Knights were reestablished in 1910 af-
ter hearing the visions of Dame Grace, a young 
Sylvestrine. New Knights Templars are Awakened 
followers supported by the Vatican and are ac-
tively involved in the affairs of the church. They 
are sworn to protect the world against the dark 
forces, though some have taken to interpreting 
the visions as protecting the Church. This has 
caused some factions to have alternate goals, 
leading to conflicts. With the exception of West-
phalian Theurgists, the NKT are the most confron-
tational of the orders.
VIGILIA EVANGELICA
This is not an order, but rather a secret clerical 
organization with a motivation to safeguard the 
world from magic too dangerous to be known. It 
was created in 1274 by Pope Gregory X follow -
ing the death of Thomas Aquinas. Since that time 
they have hidden libraries and collections of mag-
ical artifacts deemed too dangerous to mankind. 
There are, as far as observers of the order can tell, 
four of these Aquine Vaults to secure the largest 
and most dangerous collections. Vigilia Evan-
gelists also work behind the scenes, supporting 
other orders with intel and magical supplies. The 
order includes more than just Awakened individ-
uals, there are also deckers who scour the Matrix 
for magical works and rituals, hoping to isolate or 
remove the most dangerous ones. 
WESTPHALIAN THEURGISTS
Rooted in Germany, the Westphalian Theurgists 
are the most restrictive and aggressive of these 
orders. In 2014, when Imago Dei reversed previ-
ous church stances on metahumans, this group 
split from the rest of the church. They believe in 
restrictive rules of magic; only Christian Theurgy 
is acceptable, and all others are heresy and must 
be destroyed.
ORTHODOX EXARCHS
When bug outbreaks were discovered in East-
ern Europe, the Orthodox Exarchs gathered the 
strength of the Awakened from their churches and 
proved decisive against the invading spirits. They 
had the advantage of early preparation—after the 
Awakening, they were on the leading edge (at 
least as far as church members went) in diving into 
magical research. Members of the order originally 
consisted of Church members who were friendly 
to mysticism, so their mental adjustments to the 
Awakening were not exceptionally difficult. They 
are the oddest of groups in the Sixth World—in-
dividuals focused on fighting evil and not bring-
ing any reward, or even attention, to themselves. 
Sure, there are power struggles sometimes—that’s 
part of having power—but for the most part, the 
Exarchs do their research, learn their secrets, then 
use what they’ve learned to keep magic from be-
ing abused. Simple, but also quite rare.
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Aside from Sacred Text, there usually is no men-
tor/totem to directly guide Theurgists on their 
journey, but some will choose a patron saint and 
adjust their life to follow the virtues of that saint.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    63
===== PDF PAGE IDX 64 =====
IDEALS
The ideals of Christian Theurgists are far more 
varied than might be initially thought. While all 
practitioners would swear that they follow the 
teachings of Jesus Christ, the church, or some 
particular saint (not necessarily in that order), 
what that looks like in practice can vary greatly. 
Due to the prominence of Christianity in the West 
for over 1,500 years, many branches have devel-
oped, which means it is not uncommon to find 
Christian Theurgists who are pacifist, militant, 
accepting, judgmental, giving, hoarding, and ev -
ery position in-between. One could spend years 
untangling how Christian theology snaked off in 
so many different and often opposing directions, 
but examining how the doctrine became what it 
is is perhaps less important than acknowledging 
that this variety exists. 
SORCERY
Pope John XXV has said that Awakened abilities 
are not, by nature, evil. Rather, like any other hu-
man abilities, they may be used for good or evil.  
The use of spellcasting is an approved practice 
by a majority of churches.  Ritual spellcasting is 
questionable due to its possible ties to paganism.
CONJURING
Pope John XXV also goes on to say that spirits 
are living manifestations, which means conjuring 
is not in itself evil. Since it touches on so many 
questions of faith and morality, however, sum-
moning spirits is generally frowned upon, espe-
cially when attempts to bind them are involved. 
Traditional Theurgists are forbidden to summon 
or bind spirits except under permission from 
Rome, which only comes in unique circumstanc-
es. The banishing skill is allowable, relating to the 
role of banishment of evil spirits, including mod-
ern examples of insect and toxic spirits.
ENCHANTING
Theurgists frown on the use of the whole en-
chanting skill group as it ties to witchcraft and 
paganism—many witches in media are associat-
ed with wands and amulets. The use of reagents 
is permissible, unless you attempt to make them.
TRADITIONAL 
THEURGIST RULES
Traditional Theurgists follow strict rules for their 
practice of magic: 
• Cannot use the Enchanting skill group (Vig-
ilia Evangelica does not follow this limit).
• Gains the Exorcism metamagic for free.
• Cannot use the Binding skill.
• Summoning can be done, but only through 
special dispensation by those of higher au-
thority. A geas prevents the Theurgist from 
summoning without it.
• Cannot practice magic on the Sabbath 
(geas).
VIGILIA EVANGELICA HAS 
ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
• Practice a Vow of Silence (geas), though 
the written word is acceptable.
• Swear an oath of secrecy to not reveal any 
of the knowledge learned in the vaults.
• Gain the Pacifist quality (in exchange for the 
ability to use the Enchanting skill group).
WESTPHALIAN THEURGIST 
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
• Can only learn Combat and Health spells.
• Can use the Disenchanting skill.
• Gain +2 dice pool modifier for Banishing skill 
tests.
• Gain Vexcraft for free (note: skill require-
ment must be filled to use secondary abil-
ity).
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Father Pietro Rinaldi, a Catholic priest of the 
Order of St. Sylvester, has been in and around 
CHRISTIAN THEURGY
Combat: Fire
Detection: Water
Health: Air
Illusion: Earth
Manipulation: Guidance
Drain: Willpower + Charisma
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Detect Life, Heal, Increase Inherent Limits, Influence, 
Lightning Bolt
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
64    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 65 =====
the shadows for decades. Now an old man, he 
finds purpose in teaching others what he knows 
of Theurgy and magical theory in general. Rinaldi 
isn’t a full mage—in fact, he can’t cast spells—but 
he has shown himself to be a capable teacher, and 
many well-known pupils of his have risen quite 
far in the Order. Seekers, even non-faithful ones, 
will find Father Rinaldi a willing professor. When 
he is not in Rome, he can be found at one of the 
various monasteries he frequents in Seattle.
If you are looking  for a less traditional mentor, 
you can head to Bavaria and knock on the door 
of a Westphalian monastery. Archbishop Timo-
thy Stemple spends his time there, away from the 
extravagant trappings that normally accompany 
an archbishop. He demands strict adherence and 
utter servitude, but he is kind-hearted and willing 
to teach. He doesn’t back down on his beliefs, 
though, so if you are a shaman or some smart-ass 
hermetic, be prepared for lectures about the scrip-
tures and your heathen lifestyle.
> Any truth to the rumors that Bishop Stemple is Unseelie? 
> Chainmaker
> He certainly has an extreme hate-on for the Tírs. But 
Westphalians are pretty rigid. I can’t see how the two mix. 
> Axis Mundi
> They don’t mix. As Bishop Stemple himself would say, 
you can’t serve two masters. Stemple’s as religious as 
they come. But he ain’t Westphalian. 
> Rose Red
THE DRUIDIC  
TRADITION (UPDATED)
DESCRIPTION (P. 45, STREET GRIMOIRE)
Druidism is a religion and magic system originally 
practiced in parts of Celtic Europe. Druids were 
an important part of Celtic society, notably in 
worship, divination, and judicial procedure. They 
were charged with the custody of the mystical 
bond between the sacred spirit of the land and its 
people. Prior to 2040, most knowledge of Druid-
ism was lost to antiquity, and what accounted for 
modern Druidism and Neo-Druidism was based 
on interpretation from archeology and Greek 
and Roman records. It wasn’t until the Song of 
Bodhmall and the Voice of Cathbad were heard 
by Sixth-World druids as they journeyed to the 
spirit world that druidism was finally understood. 
So from Neo-druidism, Modern Druidism, Bardic 
Mysticism, and other druidic groups came three 
branches to use this new knowledge of their an-
cient heritage.
CELTIC DRUIDS 
Celtic druids are by far the most common and 
have revived ancient Celtic culture wholesale. 
Their practices are a conglomeration of every -
thing that has been discovered so far relating 
to druids. This knowledge is for the most part 
passed as an oral tradition to the next generation, 
though like other practitioners of magic, the Digi-
tal Grimoire was an appealing item for them to un-
derstand magic.  Celtic druids include Welsh and 
Scottish druids. They make themselves unique 
with subtle differences in their practices as well 
as the spirits they follow.
SACRED CIRCLE
A sacred circle is a unique version of a lodge that certain 
traditionalists can build. The cost of construction is (Force 
x 1,500) nuyen, and it takes twice the normal time to set up. 
The size is (Force) meters in diameter. Once constructed, it 
can’t be disassembled and moved. The owner would have to 
destroy it (no recycled materials), then start over. Once built, 
it can be used like a lodge, but it also holds special power for 
the Awakened. If the magician is within (Magic x 10) kilometers 
of their sacred circle, they may draw upon that power. The 
magician can reduce the force of the lodge by 1 and add +2 dice 
to a single magical skill test. This can be done every combat 
turn until the Force of the sacred circle is reduced to 0. As long 
as the Force of the circle is above zero, it is replenished by 1 
per day, up to its initial Force. It can be completely restored in a 
day if the magician spends (500 x [original Force-current Force]) 
nuyen in ritual materials.
DRUIDIC TRADITION
Combat: Beast
Detection: Water
Health: Plant
Illusion: Air
Manipulation: Earth
Drain: Willpower + Charisma
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Camouflage, Control Pack, Invisibility, Resist Pain, Stunball
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    65
===== PDF PAGE IDX 66 =====
WILD DRUIDS
Wild druids follow a deeply primeval, totemic tra-
dition, much like shamans. They prefer to believe 
that some of their magical practices existed pri-
or to any Celtic influences, distinguishing them-
selves from Celtic and English druids. They only 
worship natural/animalistic mentor spirits. They 
are more hermits in habit, shunning modern so-
ciety and technology and living off the grid with 
nature. A subset of wild druids includes those 
who’ve blended bardish mysticism into their 
practice. The bards are nomadic and live off the 
land, but unlike the rest of these druids they don’t 
avoid modern society. Bards also have some ar -
tistic talent in music or song, passing down their 
traditions through it. They are much like the street 
shamans you can find in most North American 
sprawls.
ENGLISH DRUIDS 
English druids borrow the esoteric correspondenc-
es, potent symbology, and trappings of Druidism. 
In the opposite direction of wild druids, the English 
druid encompasses more of the Celtic mysticisms 
than the natural magic. For this reason, “English 
druid” is something of a misnomer, though it is true 
that this specific orientation originated in England. 
They believe what they summon are aspects of a 
greater spirit of the land, so their attitude toward 
such spirits is more like hermetic mages.
Four annual festivals hold immense ritual sig-
nificance to all branches of Druidism: Imbolc, Belt-
ane, Lugnasad, and Samhain. Druidic circles (magic 
groups) reserve great rituals and initiation rites for 
these sacred dates. Druids create magical lodges 
called sacred circles to practice their magic. These 
are monolithic stone circles where they practice 
magic. “Modern” druids, or those that followed the 
Neo-druidic movement, scale down their lodges 
into rooms with zen rock gardens or a central water 
feature—a token gesture to their unity with all things 
of nature. Traditional druids invest more into their 
stone circles, with great stone structures grounded 
into the earth. For traditional druids, this becomes 
the main magical lodge and the only location for 
learning. This does not prevent them from estab-
lishing temporary circles for rituals. Older druid 
sites such as Stonehenge are built on mana lines to 
enhance the druid’s magic. The Druidic Tradition is 
widespread in the British Isles, Tír na nÓg, France 
and parts of central Europe
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Druids tend to favor those mentor spirits con-
nected with the land in which they find them-
selves. Nature spirits (and thus, most animal to-
tems) are natural fits within the Druidic paradigm. 
Some Druids, notably the so-called “English Dru-
ids,” also find mentors who are not so typical—
they have been known to follow a broad variety 
of mentors. 
IDEALS 
Druidism is largely free of dogma and fixed beliefs. 
There is no “sacred text” or equivalent in Druidism, 
but despite this, there are a number of ideas and 
beliefs that most Druids have in common.
Nature is an important locus of their reverence, 
and whatever beliefs that individuals hold about 
the universe, all Druids sense nature as sacred. This 
doesn’t mean all Druids are above manipulating na-
ture, but they believe their power is rooted in it. This 
power could be nature’s universal scope, or a par-
ticular piece of land sacred to a single Druid.
SORCERY
Druids practice spellcasting normally.
CONJURING
Druids practice Conjuring as normal. 
ENCHANTING
While the harvesting of reagents is acceptable to 
Druids, Alchemy is not practiced.
TRADITIONAL DRUID RULES
Traditionalist (optional)
• Cannot use the Binding skill.
• Reduce the opposing Force of ritual spell-
casting by 2 when summoning the Wild 
Hunt.
• When engaged in ritual spellcasting, reduce 
Drain by 1 for each Druid participating.
• Gain the Mentor Spirit quality for free.
• Cannot use the Enchanting skill group.
• Substitute Arcana for Alchemy when har -
vesting reagents (p. 1 7, SR5).
• Sacred Circle: A traditionalist can’t build lodg-
es, so instead they build Sacred Circles. The 
Druid form of a sacred circle is a circle of 
standing stones.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
66    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 67 =====
WILD DRUIDS (OPTIONAL)
• Wild druids reduce the opposing Force of 
ritual spellcasting by 2 when calling the 
Green Man (p. 123, Howling Shadows). 
• Substitute Arcana for Alchemy for harvest-
ing reagents (p. 1 7, SR5).
ENGLISH DRUIDS (OPTIONAL)
• English Druids reduce the opposing Force 
of ritual spellcasting by 2 when calling the 
Heart of the City (p. 123, Howling Shadows).
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
In Scotland’s highlands, there is a Fomorian known 
as Dodman Daniel. Daniel walks the ley lines, 
cleansing and aligning them as he passes. He has 
only one trusted acolyte, a young man named An-
gus, but often finds himself teaching ancient Celtic 
Druidism to those who wish to learn. Be advised—he 
doesn’t teach the highest secrets he knows except 
to Angus and a few other acolytes over the years, 
but if you want to cut your teeth and learn from one 
of the best teachers around, Dodman Daniel is your 
best bet. Also, the scenery isn’t half bad. 
> Depending on your loyalties, you may want to be a bit 
more choosey about who you learn from. The Dodman 
isn’t all he appears. Back in the ‘50s “Dodman Daniel” 
was known as Unseelie Dan, a revolutionary/terrorist 
who caused trouble in Tír na nÓg. Not sure why he’s 
gone the route of “holy man, ” but I doubt he has left his 
loyalties behind. 
> Thorn
THE NORSE  
TRADITION (UPDATED)
DESCRIPTION (P. 4, SHADOW SPELLS)
Norse magicians believe the Old Gods once 
again watch over Midgard. Ásatru, the old faith 
of the Norse, has seen a popular comeback, and 
with it the revival of its visceral and pagan magic. 
Even with the association to the apocalyptic ac-
tions of the extremist Ásatru cult known as Win-
ternight, growth of this tradition has been steady. 
While the origins were in the time of the Vikings, 
modern Ásatru began in 1972, organizing and 
legalizing their specific practices and traditions. 
This contributed to a smoother transition into the 
Sixth World. Both Awakened and mundane Ása-
tru gather for great ceremonies known as blots 
and sumbles. These are traditionally held on Mid-
summer’s or Midwinter’s Day and the spring or 
autumn equinoxes. Common elements of these 
rituals include liberal drinking and the sacrifice of 
a game animal for consumption (for urban Asatru 
practitioners, real meat sausages can be used).
Awakened practitioners of the Norse magic 
and Ásatru are called Godi, though non-religious 
Awakened could be called vitka (sorceress) or 
heiðr (cunning woman). Many Awakened follow -
ers of the Norse tradition specialize in a specific 
magical skill group. Godi are mostly spell weavers, 
priests practicing sorcery through prayers to the 
Norse pantheon. They are given respect by oth-
er followers of Ásatru. Unlike other traditions, it’s 
a part-time religious position, with a Godi hold-
ing another profitable job for support. They use a 
more hierarchal structure than other Ásatru adher-
ents. Runemasters have delved into futhark runes 
(the written language of the Norse) and have been 
able to incorporate their work into more persistent 
magic as they carve the words into stone. Seid-
men focus their attention on gaining access to the 
nine realms and communicating with the creatures 
found within. Some of these Awaken and then fo-
cus their efforts on mastering all nine realms.
Of particular note are berserkers or bear sarks 
who adopt totemic animal mentors (such as Bear 
or Stag); most are adepts, though mystic adepts or 
magicians are not unknown. Bear sarks only man-
ifest shamanic masks when in frenzies, and their 
abilities closely parallel those of their mentors.  
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Norse mages typically have individual members 
of the Norse pantheon as mentor spirits. Odin 
may be represented in a way similar to the Wise 
Warrior totem, Thor has similarities to Dragon-
slayer and Berserker, Freya and Goddess are sim-
ilar, and Loki, of course, has much in common 
with the trickster totems such as Coyote and Ra-
ven. Berserkers and sarks often claim particular 
animal totems related to Germanic homelands, 
such as Bear, Raven, Wolf, and Stag.
IDEALS 
While possibly disappointing to those who wish to 
pillage and plunder as part of their belief system, 
the Norse paradigm is much more complex than 
simple berserkers and warriors. Courage, truth, 
honor, fidelity, discipline, hospitality, industrious-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    67
===== PDF PAGE IDX 68 =====
ness, self-reliance, and perseverance are their core 
values. While each individual values these in var -
ious amounts, the Norse tradition finds common 
purpose with many of the Sixth World’s current val-
ues. The trope of the noble barbarian surely exists 
for some, but for others, it is the ancient family- and 
honor-based system that fits best with them. 
SORCERY
Spellweaving, as it’s called, is common among 
the Awakened of the Norse tradition. It involves 
the use of futhark runes and prayers to one of 
many gods in the pantheon.
CONJURING
Norse magicians believe they deal with the denizens 
of the other Realms of the World Tree. Those who can 
cross to Midgard are the fire giants of Muspelheim 
(fire spirits), the wild fae of Alfheim (plant spirits), the 
dwarfs of Nidavellir (earth spirits), the storm spirits 
of Thrudheim (air spirits), and the Valkyrie (guardian 
spirits). While traditional Godi acknowledge them, 
they do not summon them. Their interaction is more 
akin to prayers to the gods. It is the Seidman and Vit-
ka who would bring and deal with denizens from the 
nine realms in Midgard (Earth). Many of the spirits 
summoned from the Realms of the World Tree dis-
like metahumans or the process of being brought to 
Midgard. They require tributes before they perform 
services for the Awakened.
ENCHANTING
Enchanting is also common among the Norse 
magicians. Many stories and sagas tell of magical 
weapons for the heroes to wield, and every hero 
has given their weapon a name. This practice has 
been modernized with the additional knowledge 
of alchemy and runemasters’ use of futhark runes 
in the creation of preparations.
NORSE MAGICIAN RULES
GODI/RUNEMASTER
• Cannot use the Conjuring skill group.
• Reduce opposing Force of ritual spellcasting 
by 2 when Imbuing (p. 133, Street Grimoire) 
or Attuning items (p. 124, Street Grimoire).
• Can Attune normal items as per an adept.
• Durable Preparations: Increase the prepa-
ration’s potency by x3 instead of x2. Dou-
ble the time it takes to lose potency.
CUNNING WOMAN
• Treat as an aspected magician (p. 69, SR5) 
with a Sorcery focus and an inclination toward 
Health spells.
SEIDMAN
• Cannot use the Sorcery skill group.
• Gains Dedicated Conjurer quality for free.
BERSERKERS (ADEPT ONLY)
FREE ADEPT POWER
Berserker Temper: When you take Physical dam-
age in combat—or if someone under your care 
is badly injured—make a Charisma + Willpower 
Test (wound modifiers apply). You go berserk 
for 3 Combat Turns minus 1 turn per hit, so 3 or 
more hits averts the berserk temper entirely. If 
your totem also has this disadvantage, then any 
turns they might impose stack with the results of 
your test those additional turns (for example, if 
a Berserker chooses Bear, then they can possibly 
go berserk for as long as 6 turns).  Berserk power 
bonus does not apply while raging with Berserk -
er Temper. When Berserk, you go after characters 
without regard for your own safety.
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Alva Hansen is a second-generation Ásatru sha-
man, focusing on seiðr magic. While outside 
of the mainstream of Norse magic, her tantric, 
shaking, ritual-sex-based magic is gaining quite 
a following, mostly for the obvious reasons. She 
has written numerous books about seiðr, which 
have become bestsellers, especially in the UCAS, 
perhaps more for their illustrations than their con-
tent. Regardless, Alva tends to teach more wom-
en than men, as seiðr developed a reputation as 
a “womanly” art. However, Hansen is willing to 
teach any willing students to practice magic as 
she commands, no questions asked. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
NORSE TRADITION
Combat: Guardian
Detection: Earth
Health: Plant
Illusion: Air
Manipulation: Fire
Drain: Willpower + Charisma
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Death Touch, Eyes of the Pack, Insulate, Personal Warmth, 
Shape Ice, Shatter
68    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 69 =====
ISLAM (UPDATED)
DESCRIPTION (P. 46, STREET GRIMOIRE)
What started off as a small fringe group has turned 
into a much larger movement within the Islamic 
world. The Islamic Renaissance Movement, along 
with broader globalization and long-suffering ex-
amples from Sufism, have been cracking the door 
open further for Awakened Muslims to practice 
magic in ever-broadening ways. Studies in Licit 
Qur’anic Magic and alchemy have become even 
more popular since Ibrahim Kamel became the ca-
liph of the Arabian Caliphate. Joseph Chamseddine, 
the caliph’s childhood friend and spiritual mentor, 
has had a profound impact on the caliph’s encour-
agement of the burgeoning Islamic Reformation. 
Not all within the Caliphate welcome this change, 
however, so it is still a good idea for Islamic mages 
to be discreet when practicing their abilities. 
ISLAMIC ALCHEMISTS
Most in the Alchemist branch of Islamic magic 
do not consider themselves mages at all. Rath-
er, they view alchemy as just another form of 
science. Experimentation, formulas, rigorous 
notes—all of these things are important to the 
Islamic Alchemist, who either view mana as an-
other element to be dissected, or simply refuse 
to acknowledge mana at all. Islamic Alchemy is 
the exception to the rule against magic in the Is-
lamic world. Nearly all forms of Islam accept Al-
chemists in their ranks, as Islam has a rich history 
with alchemy going back to the Middle Ages. 
LICIT QUR’ANIC MAGIC
There is another branch of Islamic Magic that has 
always been present, but until the recent changes 
in the Caliphate, has not been mainstream. Thanks 
to the teachings of Joseph Chamseddine, Islamic 
mysticism is on the rise. What makes Licit Qur’an-
ic Magic different from Islamic magic in general is 
the razor-sharp focus on what is permissible (licit) 
and what is not permissible (illicit). For many in 
the Licit Qur’anic tradition, the Qur’an is the only 
sure-fire way to know if magic is permissible. The 
logic is that in Islam, the Qur’an is given by Allah, 
and therefore always permissible. So any “mag-
ic” or power that flows from use of the Qur’an or 
its contents is always permissible. Use of amulets 
with Qur’anic verses is typical among LQM prac-
titioners, guaranteeing spells remain under con-
trol and giving the caster peace of mind. 
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Islamic mages do not take mentor spirits, due 
to a deep mistrust of spirits in general, and an 
avoidance of anything that could be interpreted 
as idolatrous. The one exception is the Holy Text.
IDEALS 
It is, of course, a mistake to attempt to generalize 
the ideals of hundreds of millions of people. But 
most Islamic mages seem to cling fairly tightly to 
the Five Pillars at very least. Most, but not all. The 
declaration of faith that “There is no deity worthy 
of worship except God (Allah), and Muhammad 
is the Messenger” is common to all Islamic mag-
es. Islamic mages are also bound to daily prayer 
five times per day, giving 2.5 percent of earnings 
to charity, feasting on Ramadan, and the Hajj Pil-
grimage to the Kaaba in Mecca. The strictness of 
the adherence varies from mage to mage, how -
ever. 
SORCERY
Islamic mages practice spellcasting normally. As 
a general principle, Islamic mages discourage 
casting spells recklessly or at too high a Force, as 
this can lead to a loss of control. Further, ritual 
spellcasting is discouraged.
CONJURING
All branches of Islamic mages discourage use of 
Summoning. Banishing is permitted, although it 
is still considered dangerous. There are examples, 
however, of advanced initiates in Islamic mag-
ic who summon and bind djinn, but unless per -
mission is given from religious authorities, this is 
ROLE-PLAYING AN ISLAMIC MAGE
Given the deep persecution that the Awakened suffered 
under the Arabian Caliphate, it is no surprise that mages still 
do not feel comfortable in their own skin there. Outside of the 
Caliphate, things are different. Acceptance and belonging, 
whether it is in shadowrunning teams or groups like the 
Islamic Renaissance Movement, have allowed space for 
the tradition to grow. There will always be those, within the 
Islamic world and without, whose prejudice will not allow 
them to see an Islamic mage as anything but a threat. So a 
little paranoia might be helpful.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    69
===== PDF PAGE IDX 70 =====
forbidden. Angels, or Guardian Spirits, have been 
summoned (never bound) to give aid to Islamic 
mages who call for them, although this practice is 
not widely accepted.
ENCHANTING
Islamic mages practice skills in the Enchanting 
skill group normally.
ISLAMIC MAGICIAN RULES
ISLAMIC ALCHEMIST 
• Cannot practice spellcasting or ritual spellcast-
ing, but may use counterspelling normally.
• When Islamic Alchemists initiate, they must 
choose the following four metamagics, in the 
following order, before choosing any others: 
Fixation, Quickening, Advanced Alchemy, 
Anchoring. 
• For each level of initiation, the Alchemist may 
reroll one die on tests using the Enchanting 
skill group. 
• May not use the Conjuring skill group un-
less an initiate of grade 5 or higher. 
LICIT QUR’ANIC MAGE
• Must always cast spells through fetishes 
(amulets, scrolls, texts) based on or con-
taining Qur’anic verses. 
• Ritual spellcasting is not permitted with-
out permission from the proper religious 
authority.
• Must take the centering metamagic when 
they initiate for the first time. 
• When second grade of initiation is reached, 
must take the structured spellcasting 
metamagic.
• Summoning is not permitted unless the 
mage is an initiate of grade 7 or higher 
and only with permission from religious 
authority.
DJINN
In the Islamic tradition, spirits are called djinn. These 
creatures are not angels in a religious sense, but oth-
er creatures that were created. To most westerners 
and  Aetherpedia, there is only one type of spirit, 
which is djinn (or genie), but in truth there are actu-
ally five types of djinn, acting as spirit tribes similar 
to the fae of Europe. The five tribes of djinn are Mar-
id,  Ifrit,  Shaitan, Jinn, and Jann.  These djinn come 
from a  metaplane  they call  Ginnistan.  Ginnistan  is 
hot and arid. A great glass city, Schadou Kiam, rests 
between two vast deserts. Schadou Kiam is the seat 
of power where all the tribes meet. It is sometimes 
called the invisible city, as the shimmering heat and 
transparent towers brings the illusion of invisibility. 
To the left is Badiat-Goldare, a desert of black volca-
nic sand and sulfur odors. It is the desert of monsters, 
where dark and demonic creatures, along with some 
banished spirits, survive. To the right is Badiat-Teal-
gim, a desert of white silicon sand that sings when 
the wind blows. It is the desert of Peris, where the 
more benevolent spirits dwell. It wasn’t always like 
this. Many lifetimes ago, a great Jinn prophet had a 
vision of a vast crescent rift and war that would en-
gulf all of his people. He saw that the djinn would all 
perish if they did not choose a side. When the five 
tribes had to choose to support man or support the 
demons, the Jinn, Jann and Marid chose to support 
humans. The Ifrit and Shaitan chose demons. When 
the djinn made their choice, their metaplane phys-
ically transformed with the formation of the two 
deserts. 
At the end of the Great Rending, when the de-
mons were locked away, the Ifrit and Shaitan plead-
ed not to be locked away as well. The Marid, oldest 
of the djinn tribes, believed they should not suffer 
the fate of demons. The other djinn agreed and 
took them back, hoping they will be redeemed. This 
is why a  sufi  can summon all five tribes. Because 
of Marid, Jinn, and Jann’s choice to side with meta-
humanity, they often appear in the humanoid 
form.  Ifrit  and  Shaitan’s  choice, however,  trans-
formed their visage to something more frightening.
> There’s a grey area even with the IRM—namely, 
why summon an  Ifrit  or  Shaitan, who chose demons 
over  metahumanity? How can their actions ever be 
trustworthy?
> Crescent Moon
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
ISLAMIC TRADITION*
Combat: Guardian
Detection: Earth
Health: Plants
Illusion: Air
Manipulation: Fire
Drain: Willpower + Logic
*For Islamic mages who summon djinn, see below for alternate 
spirit types.
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Detect Enemies, Fireball, Foreboding, Mass Agony, Spirit Zapper
70    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 71 =====
Marid are the eldest, and some say the most 
powerful, of the Djinn. They  can be proud and 
arrogant.  The  Marid  tribe appears  often as fire-
less smoke or large blue humanoids. This ap-
pearance is what is most commonly described 
by legends and a generic description of djinn in 
general due to the frequency with which Marid is 
summoned. This also is why there are fewer Mar -
id than of the other tribes. 
Note that each type of djinn prefers to be called 
by their name or tribe but they will answer to the 
term “djinn.” Calling any of them  that is probably 
the safest bet if you’re not certain what tribe they 
represent. 
For many in the Islamic world, djinn are con-
sidered demons who often trick humans into do-
ing bad things. There are exceptions as portrayed 
by stories, in particular 1,001 Arabian Nights. 
Most often summoned djinn appear in metahu-
man  form with eyes that sparkle with fire. They 
can also have blended animalistic features of 
desert creatures (scorpion tail, lion head, etc.). If-
rit commonly take on inhuman features of a bat, 
while a  Shaitan  bristles  with thorns/horns.  Free 
djinn, or those who are found in the desert, can 
appear as animals (like a white camel) or natu-
ral weather phenomena (like a dust storm). More 
dangerous and powerful free spirits are not con-
fined to such  simple  forms, taking shapes like 
sand sculpted into a camel, a giant scorpion, or 
even a fire-breathing camel spider. 
As the djinn grow in power, the spirit’s skin 
tone actually changes. The younger, weaker ones 
are shades of green; then they change to blue, 
then red, while the most powerful are black. This 
can be seen in their metahuman form more than 
any other shape. The djinn’s aura is also tinted by 
this unusual color pattern  
 
> There are also yellow djinn, but they are rare.    No one 
knows where their color falls on the power scale. 
> Crescent Moon 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    71
===== PDF PAGE IDX 72 =====
Some djinn have a vulnerability to metal, such 
as copper or iron. It is believed that with this 
knowledge, King Solomon was first able to trap 
djinn. Various arcane pursuits used legends of ge-
nies in bottles to find ways to not only summon or 
bind spirits but keep them imprisoned. The myths 
speak of another aspect of djinn that has been 
known to pop up in reality—they sometimes offer 
wishes, though mostly what happens is a djinn of-
fering illusions, which helps build their reputation 
as deceivers. In modern study, djinn are perceived 
as carrying strong resentment when bound to a 
magician, citing Solomon as the original cause of 
their angst. 
> Wasn’t there an old flatvid with a crazy blonde genie in a 
bottle? 
> Slamm-0! 
 
> That, and stuff from further back, like the aforementioned 
1,001 Arabian Nights. The book has a collection of stories 
of djinn and how they can grant wishes and put magicians 
on flying carpets and the like. That last one is especially 
interesting. Literal magicians are still working on an 
efficient flying carpet, though some say stories of flying 
carpets should be taken as metaphors for astral travel. 
> Crescent Moon 
NOTABLE TEACHERS
Within the Arabian Caliphate, there is no more 
influential teacher-sheikh than Joseph Cham-
seddine. Chamseddine is the childhood friend 
and spiritual mentor of Caliph Ibrahim Kamel. 
As a Sufi mystic, his ideas are not always in line 
with majority views, but Joseph presents himself 
as a bridge builder rather than a dogmatist. The 
protection afforded to him by the caliph allows 
him the freedom to teach Sufism, though Medi-
na still does not seem ready for a Sufism-friend-
ly university. If you are serious about learning 
from Chamseddine, try getting in touch with his 
mother, Hilal, who runs a restaurant in Qana, 
Lebanon. 
> Don’t get the wrong impression. Chamseddine doesn’t 
dictate policy or belief to the caliph. Far from it. They 
don’t see eye to eye on many things. However, there is a 
deep respect between the two men, which has softened 
the new caliph’s posture toward those who are different. 
That posture only extends so far, however. The caliph 
still seems to hold on to much of the xenophobia of his 
predecessors. The West has many hurdles to overcome in 
relationship with the Caliphate. 
> Am-mut
> I hear Johnny Spinrad’s been doing just fine in his 
“relationships” within the Caliphate. He’s as Western as 
they come. 
> Clockwork
DJINN RULES
For those who would like to play one of the rare Islamic mages 
who dare to summon djinn, the spirit types used are slightly 
different. For this alternate tradition of Islam, use the following 
chart for summoning djinn.
Jinn: Beasts
Jann: Earth 
Shaitan: Air
Marid: Water
Ifrit: Fire 
Drain: Willpower + Logic
ADDITIONAL SPIRIT FEATURES 
A djinn may take a severe allergy to one metal (copper, iron, 
silver, or gold) in order to gain an additional optional power. Note 
that the metal must be of reagent quality in origin to affect a djinn. 
This selection can only be done once. Alternatively, a djinn can 
substitute an existing severe allergy for one to metal; this does not 
result in them gaining an additional optional power. 
All djinn have an inherent will to resist bonding and are 
considered to have the Restless quality (p. 199, Street Grimoire) .
All djinn have the optional power Innate Spell (Trid Phantasm). 
The skin tone of a humanoid-shaped djinn changes depending 
on its force. This cannot be hidden except through masking or 
illusion. An  Arcana + Logic (2) [Mental] Test can estimate the 
power of a djinn based on its appearance.  
 FORCE COLOR 
 1–2 Green 
 3–5 Blue 
 6–9 Red 
 10+ Black 
While all summoned spirits technically don’t have to tell 
the whole truth, Ifrit and Shaitan can lie if it suits their purpose 
like being set free from doing tasks. A magician must Judge 
Intentions (p. 152, SR5) to know if their summoned spirit is telling 
the truth. The spirit is still compelled to perform tasks as they 
interpret the commands.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
72    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 73 =====
> Yeah. He’s doin’ alright. But believe me, there are 
many, many within the leadership of the Caliphate who 
oppose Spinrad’s upcoming marriage to Gabrielle Al 
Thani, daughter of Qatar’s Emir, Jassim bin Joaan Al 
Thani. However, money has long driven the decisions 
of ambitious men. And if they can hold their nose long 
enough, they will be the ones dictating relational terms to 
the world, not the reverse. 
> 2XL
For those wishing to gain the best instruction in 
Islamic Alchemy, head to Constantinople’s Grand 
Bazaar and look for Uday “Azoth” Antar. Azoth 
used to work for the Iraqi president back before 
Iraq was absorbed into the Caliphate. Once he 
fled, he headed for the Bazaar and has set up quite 
a nice life for himself running an odd shop there. 
Azoth sells Qur’anic talismans (non-magical), re-
agents, licit spell formulas, halal and kosher ingre-
dients, but if he likes you, or if you pay him a lot, he 
can teach you a great deal about alchemy.
> Azoth is well-respected, and feared, in Istanbul. He can do 
wonders for those he likes, and for those he doesn’t, life 
becomes … challenging. 
> Goat Foot
Sulaiman Istihkara is a teacher of Licit Qur’anic 
Magic at Brite Divinity School in Fort Worth, Tex-
as. Yes, it is ironic that the only place he felt safe 
enough to practice and develop his theories was 
at a liberal divinity school, but since the Awaken-
ing, many divinity schools opened up their study 
programs to multiple religions. Istihkara, as his 
name implies in Arabic, is a master of “cutting of 
the Qur’an” in order to gain wisdom. He is easy to 
find, and you can sign up for his classes with no 
real trouble, assuming you have a fake SIN.
SHAMANISM (UPDATED) 
(P. 279, SR5)
All shamans share one belief in common: Magic 
is not something to be dissected and formulat-
ed; it is something that is felt and honored. Ex-
cepting the toxic variety, shamans tend to seek 
balance between the natural and spiritual worlds. 
Even those shamans who live in urban areas, so-
called street shamans, have learned to find har -
mony with the city’s ecosystem. While the world 
around them sees nature and life as resources to 
be exploited, shamans see the world and its spir -
its as allies. 
TRADITIONALIST SHAMAN
While many shamanic mages embrace the Uni-
fied Magic Theory to some extent and have ben-
efited from its application, there are many sha-
mans who resent the implication that magic can 
be tidied up and placed in neat boxes. These sha-
mans follow older paths and keep strict boundar -
ies around their practices, as they feel it is truer 
to the spirits and helps maintain an ancient har -
mony. These Traditionalists always have mentor 
spirits, only summon spirits native to the local 
environment, and never bind spirits. 
ANCESTOR SHAMAN
The practice of venerating ancestors is as ancient 
as human civilization. While most shamans re-
vere the Earth and its spirits, Ancestor Shamans 
primarily interact with the spirits of those who 
once lived. Ancestor Shamans do not bind spirits, 
have a deep concern for their honor/shame repu-
tation in the spirit world, and often have an easier 
time initiating due to communion with the dead 
who share their tradition.
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Most of shamanism resists the urge to call their 
totems by the designation of “mentor spirits.” 
This has not stopped others who subscribe to Uni-
fied Magic Theory from doing so. Most shamans 
choose animal-based totems. Ancestor Shamans 
do not choose animal totems, however, as most 
prefer the Wise Warrior, representing an ancestor 
with particular resonance to the shaman.
ROLE-PLAYING A SHAMAN
Shamans are different from other traditions in that they 
actually care. They may not care about individuals per se, 
but they do care. This concern for the Earth in general, or a 
particular place or group of spirits, causes them to act, or not 
act, in ways others may not understand. This misunderstanding 
can be a great source of tension (drama) within a group. Don’t 
move for others against your principles. Plant yourself, and 
make others go around you.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    73
===== PDF PAGE IDX 74 =====
IDEALS
Shamans are not one-size-fits-all when it comes 
to ideals. A Wolf shaman from the Sioux Nation 
is going to have a much different set of values 
than a Sea shaman from Lagos. Yet these two will 
always agree that spirits are to be respected (at 
least certain spirits) and there are some things 
in the universe greater than them to which they 
owe their power. What form this reverence takes 
will always depend on the individual.
SORCERY
Shamans practice spellcasting normally.
CONJURING
Shamans practice conjuration normally.
ENCHANTING
Shamans practice enchanting normally. 
ALTERNATE SHAMANIC  
PATH RULES
TRADITIONALIST SHAMANS
• Must take the Mentor Spirit quality.
• Gains Code of Honor: Harmony with Na-
ture, the Shaman’s Code, for free. 
• Gains an additional +1 when casting spells 
related to their mentor spirit or related to 
the local environment (ex. Traditionalist 
Shaman Kokii gains +1 to cast her Fireball 
close to a volcano, while the Traditionalist 
Shark Shaman Mako gains an additional +1 
to Combat spells as the Shark mentor spirit 
already gives a bonus to combat spells).
• May only summon spirits native to local en-
vironments (water spirits near sources of wa-
ter, spirits of man in inhabited places, etc.).
• May not bind spirits.
• At initiate grade 3, gains the Spirit Affinity 
quality for free. 
• At initiate grade 5, gains +2 dice pool bo-
nus to summon a spirit type of the sha-
man’s choice.
ANCESTOR SHAMANS 
• Receive +2 dice pool bonus when sum-
moning spirits of man.
• Suffer –2 dice pool penalty when summon-
ing all other types of spirits. 
• May not bind spirits of man.
• At initiate grade 2, may channel spir -
its of man as if they had the channeling 
metamagic.
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
There is no shortage of shamans willing to teach 
what they know. But if you are stuck, head to Der-
ek Branch-Breaker in the Cascade Mountains. 
He lives there in a semi-friendly alliance with the 
Cascade Orks, which means if you need to find 
him, you’ll be going through unfriendly territory 
if you don’t have tusks or horns. Rumor is that he 
ran afoul of city planners in Seattle who seized 
his land. He fought back—and lost some loved 
ones in the process. After that, he’s been training 
other shamans nonstop. Some say he is training 
an army; others think he is just following his to-
tem Bear and trying to heal old wounds. Either 
way, he’ll teach you if he thinks you’re worth it.
> Branch-Breaker is indeed training an army, but not one 
recognizable as such. 
> Man-of-Many-Names
If you are looking for someone to teach you 
Ancestor Shamanism, head to Ordos City in 
Mongolia and find Gansükh Khünbish at the 
Shrine of Genghis Khan. Be warned: Khünbish 
(always Khünbish—Gansükh is his father’s name) 
is not friendly. In fact, he can be downright hos-
tile. So read up on Mongolian culture before you 
even think about reaching out to him. He doesn’t 
use modern tech often and never replies to cor -
respondence, so if you want a teacher who is 
the best of the best, you’re going to have to go 
ask him yourself. He values fighting, so expect a 
brawl when you get there.
SHAMANIC TRADITION
Combat: Beasts
Detection: Water
Health: Earth
Illusion: Air
Manipulation: Man
Drain: Willpower + Charisma
PREFERRED SPELLS 
None
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
74    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 75 =====
NEW TRADITIONS
COSMIC
Since the first human (or metahuman, if you like) 
appeared, the stars have been a source of fasci-
nation and wonder. For some mages, simply pon-
dering the heavens was not enough. For these 
Awakened, the cosmos is the source of life and 
the most powerful agent in all reality. The harmo-
ny of the celestial bodies, their perfect orbits, and 
their predictable nature pleases Cosmic Mages, 
and they aspire for their magic to be similarly per-
fect and predictable. 
Cosmic Mages point to ancient worship of 
heavenly bodies in Babylon, Egypt, and Rome as 
the basis for their belief, although their forebears 
tapped into power they didn’t understand. While 
Cosmic Mages are the first to admit their knowl-
edge is limited as well, they believe that their ex-
panded understanding of the universe and its na-
ture gives them further insight through which to 
channel their magic. 
The fundamental forces behind the universe, 
the planets, the stars, and even dark matter 
have replaced ancient anthropomorphic sym-
bolism, but honor for the sun, moon, and stars 
has resurged, often in corporate settings, as a 
non-threatening tradition for corporate mages 
to participate in. Cosmic magic is not idealis-
tic, but skews more deterministic. While Cosmic 
Mages believe in individual will, they assert that 
everything happens as a result of the cause-
and-effect process begun by the creation of the 
universe itself. 
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS
Cosmic Mages exclusively follow the Sun, Moon, 
or Star mentor spirits. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    75
===== PDF PAGE IDX 76 =====
IDEALS
Beyond recognizing the universe as the ultimate 
source of power, Cosmic Mages have few unchal-
lenged ideals. They value science and exploration 
and have little patience for other traditions, which 
they consider fairy tales. 
SORCERY
Cosmic Mages practice spellcasting normally.
CONJURING
Cosmic Mages practice conjuring normally. 
ENCHANTING
Cosmic Mages practice enchanting normally. 
COSMIC MAGE RULES
• At initiate grade 1, choose a spell from Pre-
ferred Spells list. Receive a +1 dice pool bo-
nus on Spellcasting tests to cast this spell.
• At initiate grade 3, choose a spell from Pre-
ferred Spells list (different from spell cho-
sen at earlier initiate grades). Receive a +1 
dice pool bonus on Spellcasting tests to 
cast this spell.
• At initiate grade 5, choose a spell from Pre-
ferred Spells ist (different from spell cho-
sen at earlier initiate grades). Receive a +1 
dice pool bonus on Spellcasting tests to 
cast this spell.
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Busiko Demba, in the Empire of Zambia, in-
structs all who come to him in the Cosmic Mag-
ic tradition. He claims his teaching stretches back 
millennia, and he says he weathered hot and cold 
persecution during the Fifth World. Now, he teach-
es more traditional Cosmic Magic, focused on old-
er, anthropomorphic paradigms but infused with 
modern science and understanding. A thoughtful 
teacher, he is also a mage of no small skill who will 
train those who are willing to give him five years 
of service. 
> Demba seems to know more about magic than he should. 
The way he speaks, you would think that he has been 
around for thousands of years. But he’s a human, so 
there’s no way. But for a man who looks forty or fifty, he 
sure has the wisdom of someone much older. 
> Lyran
Luca Brilhart at Stockholm University is anoth-
er option for those who prefer a more academic 
approach to Cosmic Magic. Once a professor of 
Roman studies, Luca discovered the foundations 
of ancient Roman Sun worship fit with his nascent 
magical abilities. Once he applied his rigorous 
methodology to that ancient practice, his treatise 
on Cosmic Magic was born. He is making an ar -
dent attempt to gain popularity both for his books 
and his tradition, so he offers scholarships and 
personal lessons to those willing to learn.
DRACONIC
When magic returned to the world, it was chaot-
ic. Not many people knew what they were doing, 
and they were often surprised when they were 
able to do even the most basic magic that the 
Awakened take for granted today. But there were 
some who knew exactly what they were doing, 
since they have been doing it since well before 
the beginning of the Awakening: Dragons. When 
dragons awakened from their slumber, they had 
access to terrible and wonderful power, manip-
ulating mana as if they were born to it. They may 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
ROLE-PLAYING A COSMIC MAGE
Cosmic Mages are rarely one-dimensional. While they 
value the universe as the ultimate source of life, time, and 
power, there is no consensus about how those beliefs should 
affect one’s life. Cosmic Mages tend to be scientific and 
rather detached about the world, but at the same time they 
encourage every individual to create their own meaning within 
the universe’s vast space. 
COSMIC MAGES
Combat: Earth
Detection: Guidance
Health: Water
Illusion: Air
Manipulation: Fire
Drain: Willpower + Logic
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Analyze Magic, Analyze Truth, Comet, Detect, Gravity, 
Shape, Sunbeam
76    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 77 =====
indeed be born to it, but it is closer to the truth 
that dragons have had multiple millennia to de-
velop a tradition that is elegant, efficient, and ex-
clusive to themselves. 
Strictly speaking, however, dragons are not the 
only ones who are able to use this paradigm. Often, 
dragons teach their drake servants how to spellcast, 
summon, or use adept powers in a way that even 
the most learned scholar of the Sixth World can-
not grasp. The leading theory is that the draconic 
brain is simply wired differently than (and, dragons 
would add, superior to) metahumanity, and thus 
non-dragons cannot grasp the concepts required 
for Draconic magic. There are a few exceptions to 
this, mainly rumored among Seelie Court elves, 
but it has never been witnessed to anyone’s satis-
faction. Other theories suggest that in some ways, 
despite their ancient traditions and long lives with 
which to master them, dragons are actually at the 
disadvantage. Draconic scorn of faith is legend-
ary, but what if that were a weakness, rather than 
a strength? What if dragons are forced to rely only 
on their own resources rather than being able to tap 
into higher mysteries and beings that metahumani-
ty has often stumbled upon?
> This brings up an interesting point that I have been 
trying to research. Many Awakened metahumans have 
had encounters with various totems or mentor spirits. 
These beings grant power and guidance to the mages 
who follow them. I know that some doubt the existence 
of mentor spirits, as their existence cannot be proven by 
conventional means, but the abilities they grant are hard 
to argue with. Which brings me to my hypothesis: I don’t 
think dragons can interact with totems or “gods. ” There 
may be some sort of mental block preventing them from 
doing so, almost like they are deficient in a spiritual way. 
My research is ongoing, but that is where it is leading.
> Old Crow
> That is simply not true. Dragons know of these totem 
spirits. We simply have nothing to gain by worshiping 
them or allying with them. 
> Orange Queen
> No disrespect, your worship, but it is unsurprising for 
your kind to disagree on this point. No one likes to feel 
inferior.
> Old Crow
Regardless, the Draconic tradition has some 
points of similarity with various other traditions, but 
it also transcends them in some ways. For example, 
with regard to summoning, the Draconic tradition 
teaches its initiates to summon only those spirits 
that can materialize. But it seems that older Drag-
ons can cross this line, allowing Dragons to sum-
mon spirits that can’t materialize, but instead use 
inhabitation or possession. Overall, Draconic magic 
is incredibly robust and breaks many “rules” of tra-
ditional magic, and in that way, their magic reflects 
their own nature as much as metahuman traditions 
reflect them. Thankfully, drakes who use this tra-
dition are not initiated into the Draconic tradition 
proper, but are allowed to “channel” magic through 
their Draconic tutor. As a result, every drake who 
uses Draconic magic has a tutor they pay homage 
to—or serve, to put it bluntly—and without a tutor, 
the drake’s magic no longer works properly, revert-
ing to hermetic magic until another tutor is found.
RESTRICTIONS 
Only characters with the Drake quality may 
choose this tradition.
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Followers of the Draconic tradition cannot take 
the Mentor Spirit quality. Likewise, those with the 
Mentor Spirit quality cannot learn Draconic mag-
ic unless they remove the quality. 
IDEALS
Draconic spellcasting is inherently self-focused. 
Dragons have learned over millennia to trust only 
ROLE-PLAYING A DRACONIC MAGE
Drake mages rely on older dragon tutors to teach them new 
aspects of their tradition. Learning new spells and initiating 
requires the drake to embrace the tension between learning 
from another and self-determination. Older dragons may pass 
on some information, but it will always be up to the drake 
to figure out how to apply the lessons learned and will the 
improvements to happen. 
Further, while drakes are using the same tradition as their 
Draconic masters, drakes are never taught how the tradition 
works. They are only allowed to access its power through 
their relationship with their tutor. The Draconic tutor acts as a 
contact for role-playing purposes, but they will never divulge 
any relevant information to the PC, only act as a conduit and 
tutor for the Draconic tradition.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    77
===== PDF PAGE IDX 78 =====
in themselves, and it shows where their magic 
is concerned. Draconic spellcasters cannot join 
magical groups, and they must initiate alone. They 
may help others in rituals, initiation, etc., but they 
will never benefit from the help of other mages. 
SORCERY
Due to the radical self-reliance dragons practice, 
those following the Draconic tradition do not 
need ritual materials or magical lodges. 
CONJURING
Due to the special relationship that dragons have 
to magic, all restrictions based on spirit types are 
removed. Draconic practitioners can summon 
any type of spirit (other than spirits that use in-
habitation or possession rather than materializa-
tion), and spirits can aid or assist the mage in any 
task, regardless of type.
ENCHANTING
While the greater and more ancient of their kin 
look down upon foci and fetishes, drakes can use 
Enchanting as normal.
INITIATION
Continuing on with the theme of Draconic 
self-dependence, drakes are expected to forge 
their own paths and initiate on their own once 
they are strong and learned enough to do so. 
NOTABLE TEACHERS
There are no true teachers of Draconic magic, at 
least that metahumans have access to. Dragons 
only teach the true tradition to each other, and 
the diluted version that drakes are taught cannot 
be learned by other metahumans.  
ELDER GOD MAGIC
Many traditions, including the ancient Greeks, 
Germanic tribes, and Near-Eastern peoples, 
spoke in hushed tones about the gods that came 
before the ones they worship. Titans, Old Ones, 
primordial entities—whatever term you use, 
these Elder Gods represent the forces of cha-
os and power that existed before time began to 
have meaning.
Known in various regions as Ba’al, Nergal, Da-
gon, Yam, Ktulu, Moloch, Ashtoreth, Kronus, or in-
finite other names, these gods are altogether alien 
to metahumanity. Their goals, if any, are complete-
ly unfathomable, and the ends they desire are 
equally obtuse. What is known is that they desire 
followers and have granted power and guidance 
to those who have sufficient will to resist the mad-
ness that comes from interacting with them. 
Most religions consider their own pantheons 
(or gods) to be mostly benevolent, having some 
overarching good that can be accomplished if their 
will is done. The Elder Gods, on the other hand, do 
not pretend to share any sort of benign goodwill 
for the universe. They simply are. They have innate 
power. They hunger. 
Thankfully, the risks of following these beings 
seem too great for most mages. But for the few 
who choose to pursue this path, the lack of bound-
aries and secret knowledge they gain is worth the 
madness and the slight chance of being devoured 
and dissolving into nothingness. 
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Those who dabble in this forbidden tradition of-
ten profess to learning from mentor spirits that 
resemble Adversary, Arcana, Dark King, or Tohu 
Wa-Bohu.
> Honestly? Tohu Wa-Bohu is a mentor spirit? That makes 
no sense. How can something defined by being without 
function or form be anyone’s mentor?
> Mr. Bonds
> I don’t even know what that is. Since when were you a 
mage? How do you know what this is?
> Slamm-0!
> Because once upon a time, a rabbi made me memorize 
large chunks of Torah, that’s why.
> Mr. Bonds
DRACONIC TRADITION
Combat: Any
Detection: Any
Health: Any
Illusion: Any
Manipulation: Any
Drain: Willpower + Magic
PREFERRED SPELLS 
None. Or all. Depends on your perspective.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
78    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 79 =====
> To answer your question, if one can bear the looking, 
there is much that can be learned from the void. 
> Man-of-Many-Names
> Nothing good, I bet. 
> Mr. Bonds
IDEALS
These mages, often deridingly called cultists, 
have few ideals to speak of. If they value any -
thing, it is truth, no matter how ugly and harsh, 
and perhaps an exaggerated sense of their own 
importance to their masters’ plans. In a perfect 
world, these horrifying deities are simply mani-
festations of their believers’ passions rather than 
beings of corporeal fact. If they actually exist, 
though, their true purposes are as mercurial as 
the names these cultists use to refer to them. 
Almost by definition, metahuman logic is insuffi-
cient to understand their actions.
SORCERY
Elder God mages practice spellcasting normally.
CONJURING
Elder God mages practice conjuring as normal. 
ENCHANTING
Elder God mages practice enchanting normally. 
ELDER GOD MAGE RULES
• Receive a –2 dice pool penalty on all Drain 
tests.
• Gain a +3 dice pool bonus when casting Il-
lusion spells.
• At initiate grade 1, must choose the cor -
ruption metamagic.
• At initiate grade 3, gains the taint metam-
agic in addition to a metamagic of their 
choice.
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
There are no known teachers of this tradition. 
Many current practitioners claim to be trained 
by Titus Sloven, but since Sloven threw himself 
into the maw of an Awakened kraken, many of 
his students have gone into hiding to escape 
the persecution that usually follows these cult-
ists.  Rumor persists that Sloven survives, but no 
concrete evidence has appeared to support this 
claim. 
> For the record, that was not an Awakened kraken Sloven 
threw himself into. 
> Elijah
> Okay, Mr. Mysterioso, what was it?
> Slamm-0!
> Well?
> Slamm-0!
> I hate it when he does that.
> Slamm-0!
ROLE-PLAYING AN ELDER GOD MAGE
This can be a tricky tradition to role-play, especially at a 
table with diverse characters. In some ways, it would be easier 
to determine beforehand what the character’s motivation for 
shadowrunning is before they begin playing. If they have a 
long-term goal, perhaps they view teaming up as a means to an 
end. Alternatively, they may be touched by a bit of madness and 
even they don’t know why they do what they do. Whispering to 
yourself, hearing strange voices, paranoia even beyond what is 
typical for shadowrunners, and certain self-and-team-defeating 
behavior can make this tradition come alive. It is important 
to remember that ultimately, these are not necessarily evil 
characters, but even if they are, their evil should rarely be turned 
on other players, as there are plenty of other targets in the Sixth 
World, and teammates can be valuable pawns to accomplish 
the will of your lord. Basically, find a way to play that works with, 
instead of against, the goals of the other characters—while 
possibly making their lives more interesting along the way.
ELDER GOD TRADITION
Combat: Task
Detection: Guardian
Health: Earth
Illusion: Fire
Manipulation: Water
Drain: Willpower + Intuition
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Agony, Bugs, Chaos, Confusion, Foreboding, Phantasm, 
Mob Mind
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    79
===== PDF PAGE IDX 80 =====
GREEN MAGIC
On the surface, Green Magic seems to have much 
in common with eco-shamanism or nature-based 
Druidic traditions. But dig a little deeper and, 
common interests aside, they are startlingly dif-
ferent. This “newer” tradition was not created as 
much as rediscovered by Tzuri Group archeolo-
gists investigating one of two cities found resting 
underwater in the Gulf of Khambhat off India’s 
northwestern coast. Tzuri found that plant wor -
ship was common 10,000 years ago and led by 
“Priests of Green.”
> Didn’t the Tzuri Group discover two sunken cities on that 
expedition?
> Elijah
> Yes, they did. Check out the next entry for what they 
discovered at the other. 
> Axis Mundi
Green mages view their magic as coming from 
an elemental power beyond our world that con-
nects all plant life together in one metaplanar 
eco-system called the Domain of Green. Green 
mages don’t necessarily focus on balance and 
harmony with nature or honoring all spirits equal-
ly. Rather, they give primacy to plant life and only 
pursue goals that aim to increase the growth and 
spread of plant life. 
In return, the Green mage gains tremendous 
power in the domain of plants. According to ar -
cheological evidence, this focus often placed the 
more dogmatic Priests of Green in conflict with 
the more aggressive Red Mages.
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Many Green mages have found the Green Man 
(Tree/Viridios) mentor spirit calling to them, or they 
are called by another spirit with a similar purpose. 
IDEALS
Green mages hold respect for plant life above 
everything else. In their mind, life on Earth, 
and everywhere else in the universe, not only 
started with plant life, but is sustained by it. The 
idea that metahumanity, animal life in general, 
or any other sapient life holds more value than 
the world’s plant life is abhorrent to them. As 
long as Green survives, the rest of life will find 
a way also. 
SORCERY
Green mages practice spellcasting normally.
CONJURING
Green mages practice conjuring normally. 
ENCHANTING
Green mages practice enchanting normally. 
GREEN MAGE RULES
• Cannot summon beast spirits or spirits of 
man.
• Gain +2 dice pool bonus to summon plant 
spirits.
• At initiate grade 1, must choose the cleans-
ing metamagic.
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
One of the friendliest people I’ve ever met is 
Holland Hara. The irony is that Hara isn’t a per -
son at all. Hara is a great form plant spirit who 
became free through circumstances lost to time. 
Explorers found Holland meditating at the bot-
tom of the Gulf of Khambhat, sustaining an en-
ROLE-PLAYING A GREEN MAGE
Green mages are not the same as eco-shamans. Green 
mages may respect the earth and seek balance, but they are 
first and foremost dedicated to the plant kingdom. How this 
plays out in individual games could include anything from 
radical, plants-rights activism to providing a reasoned voice of 
representation for the Domain of Green.
GREEN MAGES
Combat: Plant
Detection: Earth or Plant
Health: Water or Plant
Illusion: Air or Plant
Manipulation: Fire (Sun)
Drain: Willpower + Charisma
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Branch, Growth, Heal, Lash, Opium Den, Rosebush, Slash, 
Stink, Sunbeam, Thorn, Vine
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
80    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 81 =====
tire eco-system of underwater plant life, which 
he claims to have been doing somehow for over 
four thousand years. Once discovered, the ex-
plorers offered to help Hara transplant seeds of 
these plants to various locations, and he agreed 
to teach them Green Magic. Once he learned of 
new technologies that he could use to help plant 
life, as well as repair the damage that industry had 
done to the eco-system, Holland Hara has been 
on a mission to restore balance to the world, win-
ning one heart at a time. 
> So, does this tradition only conjure plants and use magic 
that is green? That seems rather limiting. 
> Mika
> That is definitely not the case. A Green mage I know by 
the name of Krenger could cast other types of spells. 
While they didn’t necessarily all look like plants, they were 
from domains that we normally associate with plants and 
their nurture. For example, his Flamethrower-like spell 
was a beam of sunlight. His Healing manifested as water. 
Whenever he was using a Detection spell, he stuck his 
hands in the ground. That kinda stuff. What he never did, 
though, was bother with domains like beasts or man. 
> Ethernaut
MISSIONISTS
Since the Awakening, the Christian churches of 
the world (Catholic, Protestant, Orthodox, and 
beyond) have argued about what the reappear -
ance of magic means for their faith. In the early 
part of the twenty-first century, there was a mas-
sive divide, even within denominations, between 
those who accepted magic as another aspect of 
God’s creation and those who despised magic as 
anathema. Eventually, many within the Christian 
tradition began practicing magic in Neoplatonic 
or theurgist paradigms. 
Much of Christian theological history focused 
on the vast chasm between the body, considered 
corruptible and “bad,” and the spirit, considered 
pure and “good.” This value was shared by Neo-
platonists, who, along with Gnostics, believed that 
mysticism held the secret to spiritual power. This 
Neoplatonism had a strong influence on the Chris-
tian faith, but not all Christian traditions followed 
this path. 
The so-called “Missionist” tradition (coined by 
Rev. Belle Robinson) began more or less by accident 
in Detroit, Michigan. Since Detroit had become an 
Ares company town, those without a connection 
to the megacorp were often left destitute. Many of 
Detroit’s churches had signed the accord of 2023, 
committing to non-engagement in debates about 
magic while continuing their focus on serving the 
poor, the outcast, and marginalized. In 2044, the 
coalition spontaneously performed a ritual that 
fed all of Detroit’s homeless population for a day. 
The next week, at a similar meeting, many were 
healed of various diseases. Rev. Robinson from St. 
Giles Presbyterian Church soon founded a divinity 
school dedicated to studying this phenomenon. 
2075 saw the first graduating class of Remnant Di-
vinity School and the first official practitioners of 
Missionist Magic, which focused not on obscure 
texts or mystic power, but on the healing of peo-
ple, nations, and the planet. 
> Uh, look. No offense, but these cross-hippies seem utterly 
useless as shadowrunners. I mean, I guess they don’t 
need to be runners, but … yawn.
> Turbo Bunny
> You’re missing the point. They aren’t included here just 
because they might be threats or potential members of 
a team (although I can think of a few times one would 
come in handy). But knowing one could save your life if 
you happen to be shot up, stranded, and need to lei low. 
They’ll help, even if you got nothing in trade. There’s your 
incentive to know something about ’em. Too bad there 
aren’t many around. 
> Bull
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
ROLE-PLAYING A MISSIONIST MAGE
Missionist mages can function most efficiently as healers 
within a group. Violence is not something they ever enjoy, and 
when they fight or kill, it will always be “punching up”—that is, 
they will only do so to those they consider oppressors, never to 
the oppressed, and even then they will do so reluctantly. 
MISSIONIST TRADITION
Combat: Man
Detection: Air
Health: Water
Illusion: Fire
Manipulation: Earth
Drain: Willpower + Charisma
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Alleviate, Armor, Cure Disease, Deflection, Forced Defense, 
Heal, Knockout, Multiply Food, Stunball, Stunbolt
<< TRADITIONS    81
===== PDF PAGE IDX 82 =====
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
The only mentor spirits common to Missionist 
Mages are Peacemaker and Holy Text.
IDEALS 
Missionist mages exist to heal broken things. They 
are not necessarily dogmatic in their beliefs, al-
though they can be. They tend to be the first to 
de-escalate situations of violence, but they are not 
universally opposed to using violence to reach 
their goals. Many Missionists find themselves at 
similar purposes with anarchist movements, as 
they see corporations as the largest oppressors of 
the poor. They pursue healing and aid while giv -
ing preferential treatment to the poor and mar -
ginalized, as they see this as their mission. Most 
consider spirits to be another aspect of their God’s 
creation, and as such, will not bind them. 
SORCERY
Missionist mages practice spellcasting normally.
CONJURING
Missionist mages practice conjuring as normal 
but cannot bind spirits. 
ENCHANTING
Missionist mages practice enchanting normally. 
MISSIONIST MAGE RULES
• Gain +2 dice pool bonus when casting 
Health spells.
• Suffer –2 dice pool penalty when casting 
Combat spells.
• At initiate grade 1, must choose the shield-
ing metamagic.
• At initiate grade 3, must take the noble sac-
rifice metamagic. 
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Although Reverend Belle Robinson is the 
“founder” of the Missionist tradition, she is the 
first to correct you and say that the tradition be-
gan long ago by someone better than her. Fur -
ther, while she still holds a ceremonial position 
at Remnant Divinity School, she spends most of 
her time in Detroit, working among the down-
and-out. 
> Robinson seems like the real deal. There isn’t much light 
that is legit in the shadows, but Rev. Belle doesn’t over-
promise, and she helps wherever she can. Unfortunately 
for her, that is why her tradition is so small. There isn’t 
a lot of money, power, or fame in suffering on behalf of 
others. Still, while I pursue the finer things in life, people 
like Robinson keep me from having to spend too much of 
my nuyen on hospital bills and food when I’m in town. 
> Kane
> I am not sure if that was complimentary or condescending. 
Knowing you, it’s both. 
> /dev/grrl
> Come on. Haven’t we all learned our lesson? There is no 
such thing as an altruistic organization or group. These 
people just haven’t showed their true colors yet. Universal 
Brotherhood, anyone? 
> Black Knight
> Sorry, bud. I just can’t work myself up about these folks. 
They are too insignificant. 
> Kane
Now, if one wishes to learn Missionist magic, 
Rev. Baily Warner is the one to speak with. He is 
the current president of Remnant Divinity. If you 
want to learn, he’ll encourage you to enroll in the 
school and learn alongside the other students. 
However, if you want to learn in a less-formal 
setting, from those with boots on the ground, 
check out Sister Francisca Tancredi in Bogota. 
She is part of the Catholic resistance in Aztlan, 
preferring to fight with healing magic and food 
rather than with guns. She was not formally trained 
but practices a non-formal version she developed 
among the warzone’s most needy. 
> Sister Tancredi helped Aufheben often in the resistance to 
Aztlan. She stood against the Azzies, which he liked, so he 
overlooked her Catholic side because she patched up his 
grunts and fed his sympathizers. His biggest beef with her 
was that she refused to take up arms. She always said that 
she had a bigger battle to fight. 
> Old Crow
NECRO MAGIC
Not to be confused with Black Magic, Necro 
Magic is described by its practitioners as welling 
up from a force they call the Domain of the Black. 
The power wielded by these mages is a force of 
decay and destruction, but practitioners insist 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
82    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 83 =====
that their tradition is not toxic, despite what they 
call superficial similarities. 
Dr. Jennifer Stinson, who has claimed the title 
“High Priestess of Black,” famously demonstrat-
ed the power of Necro Magic in 2075 when she 
performed a ritual ending the burgeoning VI-
TAS-4 outbreak in Milan. While there were some 
casualties among the poorest citizens, the rest 
of the city was so grateful that it hailed Stinson 
as a savior.
The current incarnation of the Necro Magic 
tradition began in earnest following the return of 
the Tzuri Group from a metaplanar archeologi-
cal expedition in 2064. For a decade, practice of 
Necro Magic remained secretive and restricted 
to those within the Tzuri Group which took part 
in the expedition. When Dr. Stinson saved Milan, 
however, many interested parties began to seek 
her out for instruction. 
Stinson cites the magic of the Green and Red 
when discussing how Necro Magic is not unnat-
ural or evil, but simply another facet of life in the 
universe. Necro mages claim that while their pow-
er can seem only destructive, it is actually peaceful 
in the same way that arms manufacturers actually 
seek peace and safety when they create weapons. 
Stinson vows that her tradition only uses Necro 
Magic for the greater good, and thus far, every -
thing she has shown the outside world has been 
consistent with that claim. 
> Anyone else thinking it is what she hasn’t shown the 
outside world that is going to bite us in the hoop?
> Netcat
> Come on, ‘Cat. You of all people should know better than 
to condemn what you don’t understand. 
> Butch
> No, Netcat is right to be scared. Stinson has skeletons in 
her closet. Actual skeletons. And she speaks with them 
nightly after her grisly blood rituals. 
> Plan 9
> Are you even trying to differentiate between real and 
make-believe anymore?
> Snopes 
Stinson and the Tzuri Group are adamant that 
their beliefs are not new or novel. They claim 
that, according to discoveries they made on 
their journey, their magic has been practiced on 
Earth and elsewhere for more than ten thousand 
years. Necro Magic, they claim, is the basis for 
much of the magic practiced in many existing 
traditions. 
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Many Necro mages follow the mentor spirit 
Death or Dark King, if they follow a mentor at all. 
IDEALS
The Necro Magic tradition teaches that death is 
not only an inevitable aspect of life, but also one 
that ultimately leads to peace. Necro mages tend 
to value quiet and stillness, as they believe the 
universe was at its most peaceful before there 
was life. Most consider their fascination with the 
dead to be unhealthy, but Necro mages counter 
that most religions in the Sixth World also value 
communion with the dead, albeit in a way that 
Necro mages believe is sanitized, delayed, and 
distorted. 
ROLE-PLAYING A NECRO MAGE
Necro mages will always be looked upon with suspicion. 
Even in areas like parts of Tsimshian and Yakut, where Necro 
Magic is accepted, the average person will still more than likely 
fear a Necro mage because of their power and morbid nature. It 
is up to the player to decide how evil a Necro mage really is. Is 
Necro Magic really malevolent, while trying to masquerade as a 
simple force of nature? Are mages in the thrall of a force much 
darker and more heinous than they let on? Or perhaps they 
really seek the good of all through one of nature’s more hated 
but necessary forces?
NECRO MAGIC
Combat: Corpse (Man)
Detection: Carcass (Beast)
Health: Rot (Plant)
Illusion: Detritus (Earth)
Manipulation: Palefire (Fire)
Drain: Willpower + Logic
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Death Replay, Death Touch, Manabolt, Manaball, One Less, 
Slaughter, Slay, Shattershield, Rot, Death Mark (ritual), Necro 
Summoning (ritual), Whisper of Bones (ritual)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    83
===== PDF PAGE IDX 84 =====
SORCERY
Necro Mages practice spellcasting normally.
CONJURING
Necro Magic is a possession tradition. It cannot 
summon as normal, but uses the Necro Summon-
ing Ritual instead.
 
ENCHANTING
Necro mages practice enchanting normally. 
NECRO MAGE RULES
• Must take Ritual Spellcasting.
• At character creation, must choose one 
(and only one) Necro Summoning ritual. 
• Cannot summon normal spirits, but are re-
stricted to Corpse, Carcass, Rot, Detritus, or 
Palefire spirits.
• At initiate grade 1, learn one additional 
Necro Summoning ritual.
• At initiate grade 2, learn one additional 
Necro Summoning ritual.
• At initiate grade 3, learn one additional 
Necro Summoning ritual.
• At initiate grade 4, gain an additional +2 
dice pool bonus to summoning rituals.
• At initiate grade 5, learn one additional 
Necro Summoning ritual.
• At initiate grade 6, may take the reckless 
Necro Summoning metamagic (in place of 
normal metamagic).
NOTABLE TEACHERS
Dr. Jennifer Stinson is the premier teacher of Necro 
Magic. The chairperson of the Tzuri Group, she fills 
most of her days running Tzuri’s corporate HQ in 
Mumbai. Almost all current Necro mages trace 
their tutelage back to her. Since the reveal of Necro 
Magic to the world in ’75, however, she has not tak-
en on any pupils, at least that we know of. That isn’t 
to say that she isn’t trying to grow her craft. 
Dr. Henry Hwang, Dr. Stinson’s associate (and 
fellow metaplanar archeologist) has taken on 
more students in the last five years. Hwang runs 
the Tzuri Group’s Korean operations out of Pyong-
yang, and his Necro School (professing “Peace 
and Power Through Acceptance”) is actively tak -
ing new recruits, as well as scanning East Asia for 
potentially Awakened individuals. 
A former associate of Stinson and Hwang, Dr. 
Jesse Hodges, apparently broke ties with the Tzuri 
group and has taken on at least two pupils that we 
know of. His current location is unknown, and ac-
cording to one of his students, he is rather reclusive. 
If you can find “Hermit” Hodges, he may teach you, 
but it may not be the same formal education you 
would get from the “official” Tzuri teachers. 
> I can’t post it here, but if anyone wants to know why 
Hodges broke with Tzuri, I have the goods. It’ll cost you 
4,000 nuyen for the info, though. So keep that in mind 
before you ask. 
> Haze
> It’s no secret. Hodges was touched in the head. He had a 
breakdown and was fired. No conspiracy. 
> Snopes
> Oh yeah? Tell me about his breakdown. Anything specific? 
> Haze
> No? I didn’t think s… Heh. Thanks for the 4,000, Snopesy. 
Check your inbox. 
> Haze
OLYMPIANISM
The legends of the classical gods and goddesses 
of ancient Greece are still as prevalent in public 
education today as they were last century. And 
the fascination with the ancient Greeks doesn’t 
end there. Books, trids, architecture, philosophy, 
and even the form of government in some coun-
tries still reflect a never-ending fascination with all 
things Hellenistic. And that is without even men-
tioning how Ares Macrotechnology keeps that 
culture alive in many less obvious ways.
So it should come as no surprise that since the 
Awakening, many have retread ancient texts and 
rediscovered ancient forms of worship and de-
votion to these classical gods. This restored wor -
ship is called Olympianism, after Mount Olym-
pus, where the gods had their home. Olympians 
point to the mysterious veil around the summit of 
Mount Olympus that appeared some years ago as 
evidence that their faith is correctly placed.  
Olympianists are a robust and diverse group, 
accepting all metatypes and abilities, as they be-
lieve all life was made by the gods. Greek spirits 
are commonplace in Olympian lore, from house-
hold gods and ancestor spirits to fairy-like spirits 
of air, water, earth, and fire. The Olympians take 
great care to not offend spirits if possible. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
84    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 85 =====
Olympianist priests generally venerate all of 
the Greek Pantheon, but once initiated, they spe-
cialize in service to one particular deity. The most 
common devotion goes to Zeus, of course, then 
Aphrodite, then Hera, followed by Ares and Ha-
des. Even though these gods receive more praise, 
strong followings of Neptune, Apollo, and Artemis 
exist, as do smaller devotions to almost every oth-
er god within the pantheon (including a small sect 
of powerful mages bound to Hecate). 
Gregorios Argyris leads the renewed Olympi-
anist temple in Athens. With visual aid given by 
a stable alchera, the Parthenon was magically re-
stored to its former glory and now serves as the 
epicenter of the new and swiftly growing faith.
> The renewed Parthenon is something to behold. It really 
isn’t a wonder why so many are flocking to hear Gregorios 
speak and learn of the old ways. 
> Arete
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
While some Olympianists are committed to serving 
the entire pantheon, most eventually choose a pa-
tron deity. Those wishing to follow a particular deity 
can find existing mentor spirits that represent ideals 
their patron encourages. While not a deity, Oracle 
also fits well within the Olympianist paradigm. 
IDEALS
The Olympianists don’t always value the same 
things that the ancient Greeks did. Specifically, 
most Olympianists favor Athens and their demo-
cratic ideals rather than Spartan cruelty or Epicure-
an hedonism. While each god has their own focus, 
the pantheon as a whole and the Olympianists val-
ue learning, philosophy, martial prowess, and order. 
SORCERY
Olympianists practice spellcasting normally.
CONJURING
Olympianists practice conjuring normally. 
ENCHANTING
Olympianists practice enchanting normally. 
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Gregorios Argyris and his democratic ekklesia (or 
principal assembly) lead the Hellenistic revival 
in Greece. Gregorios may lead the movement, 
but he is hardly the most powerful member. In 
fact, the so-called New Argonauts are the high-
est-profile teachers of Olympianist magic. 
The New Argonauts—Hercules, Orpheus, and 
Atalanta—form the leadership of the Olympianist 
Academy of Magic. While the academy is commit-
ted to training all seekers in the philosophy and use 
of Olympianist magic, they also handpick the best 
recruits to join the New Argonauts as mercenaries 
for hire. The New Argonauts travel where the Ora-
cle leads them, and their prowess has gained them 
a herculean reputation in the shadows. 
> These guys are serious risers, quickly moving to elite 
levels. There are not many mercs I’d rather have at my 
back than these guys. Honorable and damn efficient in 
a scrap. 
> Hard Exit
PATH OF PARIAH 
(FOR THE AWAKENED  
WHO HATE MAGIC)
Those who adhere to the Path of Pariah, appro-
priately called Pariahs, are radically different 
ROLE-PLAYING AN OLYMPIANIST
The Greek pantheon should be fairly familiar. As such, the 
diversity of the gods provides an equally diverse way of playing 
an Olympian mage. Play up the superiority that such an ancient 
culture might command, or alternatively, humbly seek to spread 
the wisdom of ancient Greece to the masses. 
OLYMPIANISM
Combat: Guardian
Detection: Air
Health: Earth
Illusion: Water
Manipulation: Fire
Drain: Willpower + Logic
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Clairvoyance, Intoxication, Lightning Bolt, Napalm, 
Shapechange
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    85
===== PDF PAGE IDX 86 =====
from every other mage in the Sixth World. That 
is because no other tradition of magic hates 
magic. But the Pariahs do. They see it as their 
mission to destroy magic in all of its forms, and 
they have a radical distaste for what they con-
sider to be the corruption of the world since the 
Awakening. 
Although this may seem contrary to their 
beliefs, Pariahs do in fact use magic. They view 
their gift as a curse: the curse of being able to 
fight magic with magic. As such, their art often 
seems more like magical defense to the casual 
observer. 
Since Pariahs are often seen helping those who 
also hate the Awakened and other metahumans 
who have appeared since the Sixth World began, 
they are often mistaken for a tradition of hate. 
There is some truth to that, but their hate is not for 
any particular group or person, but for magic itself. 
> Actually, there is a lot of truth to it. They don’t just hate 
magic. They hate everyone who uses it. Yeah, they are 
super warm and fluffy to mundanes, I bet, but once they 
find out you sling, they turn cold and murderous. These 
fraggers are kin to a self-loathing troll joining Humanis 
and pounding other gobs.
> Thorn
> Not all of them are hateful like that. But I must say that too 
many are, so the point stands.
> Winterhawk
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Pariahs loathe the idea of being helped or influ-
enced by spirits, so they never have mentors. 
IDEALS 
Pariahs only have one over-arching commonal-
ity, and that is their desire for a world without 
magic. The most influential teachers of the Path 
of Pariah preach that if the world will give up its 
fascination with mana and strange things be-
yond our world, that false world, the astral plane, 
will lose its power and eventually fade away. Pa-
riahs are the evangelists for this view, and they 
are sent as sheep among wolves, protecting hu-
manity from itself. 
SORCERY
Pariahs cannot use any skill in the Sorcery group 
except for Counterspelling. 
CONJURING
Pariahs cannot use any skill in the Conjuring 
group except for Banishing. 
ENCHANTING
Pariahs cannot use any skill in the Enchanting 
group except for Disenchanting. 
PARIAH RULES
• Cannot use Spellcasting, Ritual Spellcast-
ing, Alchemy, Artificing, Summoning, or 
Binding.
• Gain +2 dice pool bonus to Counterspell-
ing, Banishing, and Disenchanting tests.  
• At initiate grade 1, must choose the shield-
ing metamagic.
• At initiate grade 2, must take the opposi-
tion metamagic. 
• At initiate grade 3, gains an additional +2 
to Disenchanting tests. 
• At initiate grade 4, gains an additional +2 
to Counterspelling tests. 
• At initiate grade 5, gains an additional +2 
to Banishing tests. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
ROLE-PLAYING A PARIAH
Role-playing a Pariah can be as varied an experience as the 
player desires. On one hand, the Pariah could be someone who 
hates all aspects of the Awakening, including elves, dwarves, 
trolls, orks, and all other magical creatures, in addition to magic. 
On the other side of the coin, a Pariah could see all of these 
creatures and people, including mages, as being afflicted by 
magic and thus worthy of pity. That means they never turn their 
anger on them directly, but only use their abilities to stop magic 
from doing what they consider to be damage. 
PATH OF PARIAH
Combat: —
Detection: —
Health: —
Illusion: —
Manipulation: —
Drain: —
PREFERRED SPELLS 
None
86    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 87 =====
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Brother Thomas Nesmith is a radical anti-mag-
ic preacher from north of Seattle. He has formed 
a small community in Salish-Shidhe land. They 
tolerate his community because they pay taxes 
and don’t cause much trouble—at least, not that 
is obvious. Brother Nesmith does all his trouble-
making subtly. There have been rumors of Pari-
ah “justice,” dealt out to unwitting mages who 
happen into their community, but no bodies or 
other confirmation have been seen. If you are not 
Awakened, or non-human, you will find Brother 
Nesmith a welcoming and humble teacher. If you 
are Awakened, steer very clear.
> Brother Nesmith is the creepiest fragger I’ve ever met. And 
I have met some doozies. Of course, they were pleasant 
as punch to me, because I’m mundane, but to hear these 
guys blessing the food and bringing the happy one 
moment and the next talk about stabbing the Awakened 
… It’s just damn unsettling. 
> Sunshine
Not all Pariahs are as nasty as Brother Ne-
smith, though. Captain Digger Kelph leads 
Lone Star Dallas’ anti-magic task force. She isn’t 
meta-racist and doesn’t take pleasure in her 
job. She does, however, have a deep distrust of 
magic. She sees magic (and spirits) as sickness-
es to help other overcome. As such, she cares 
deeply about those she is dispatched to help. 
Unfortunately for her, she rarely gets to help in 
the way she wants. Rather, she spends all of her 
time dealing with rogue mages, and more often 
than not, having to put them down. She teach-
es her trade freely, but with a sort of sadness 
that comes from seeing too much of the Sixth 
World’s underside. 
PLANAR MAGIC
After Dr. Daniel Gordon began publishing his 
work on metaplanar mapping and travel, interest 
in the so-called metaplanes peaked and has not 
slowed since. Gordon’s final and most secretive 
work, descriptions of myriad metaplanes them-
selves, from first-hand knowledge, is still not 
published, and in fact was only made known nar -
rowly here on JackPoint. For those interested, see 
Magister’s upload called Aetherology. 
But even without all the facts (or guesswork as 
the case may be) contained in Gordon’s work, a 
rather new religion has emerged since the meta-
planes made their way into the common parlance 
of magicians. I call it a religion because it checks 
all the boxes of traditional religion. But in some 
ways, it bears more resemblance to traditions of 
magic, which justifies its inclusion here. 
The short version is this: Rather than the worship 
of traditional gods and ideals typically depicted on 
Earth, the discovery of other realms beyond our 
own has led certain mages to seek out quantifiable 
sources of power rather than invisible, untouchable 
deities. As such, these “Planar mages” first study 
the metaplanes and their effects on our world, then 
travel to these planes to form pacts with extra-pla-
nar entities, exchanging their souls (or less-fantastic 
prizes) for enhanced magical abilities. 
The contacted entities act as mentor spirits for 
these mages, and although they are clearly not 
omnipotent beings, they are given reverence bor-
dering on worship. Not all Planar mages give un-
wavering devotion to their patron, but whether 
they share common purpose or are compelled to 
obey, Planar mages end up serving the goals of the 
metaplaner entity on earth. Finally, it should be said 
that the Planar Research Society of Magic (PRiSM) 
is non-partisan and does not judge between planar 
entities. That is, while some within the society are 
bound to extraplanar entities that are benevolent, 
others are clearly bound to selfish or far more vile 
spirits. While PRiSM has strict conduct for meetings 
and interactions between members, it is the sharing 
of information and best practices that draws them 
together, not any common goals. 
> I don’t see anything here that doesn’t scream danger. I am 
in awe of the stupidity of some people. 
> Ethernaut
> That sounds like a bit of either jealousy or ignorance. 
How much personal experience do you have with the 
metaplanars?
> Red
> It is neither. I speak from experience, not with these fools, 
but with the metaplanar entities they are making pacts 
with. I don’t see anything good coming from this. 
> Ethernaut
> With respect, Ethernaut, the metaplanes and their entities 
are not good or evil, but both and neither. But if power is 
what they seek, this tradition will certainly give it to them. 
It is the cost I would worry about. 
> Man-of-Many-Names
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    87
===== PDF PAGE IDX 88 =====
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
A Planar mage always has a patron entity that 
acts as their mentor spirit. 
IDEALS 
Planar mages share no ideal other than the meta-
planes hold answers that Earth does not. They be-
lieve life and magic began on these metaplanes 
and do not accept the theory that Earth and life 
on it affect the metaplanes. They rather think 
Earth and our universe is just expressions of the 
greater mana-system that existed before time in 
the astral beyond.  
SORCERY
Planar Mages practice spellcasting normally.
CONJURING
Planar Mages practice conjuring normally. 
ENCHANTING
Planar Mages practice enchanting normally. 
PLANAR MAGE RULES
• Must learn the Spirit Pact ritual before ini-
tiating.
• After reaching initiate grade 1, each addi-
tional initiation requires the mage to first 
travel to a previously unvisited metaplane. 
• In order to become initiate grade 3, a Planar 
mage must make a Spirit Pact with a Meta-
planar entity or spirit (the exact nature of 
the pact is decided between PC and GM).
• At initiate grade 4, and each grade after, may 
switch current spirit type associate with tasks 
(Combat, Detection, Health, Illusion, Manip-
ulation) with a spirit or entity encountered in 
metaplanes. 
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Learning Planar Magic is not difficult, if one is 
prepared to face the dangers of the metaplanes. 
The Planar Research Society of Magic, or PRiSM, 
as it is called, accepts all comers. They refer to 
themselves as “travelers” and gladly share what 
they know in return for whatever knowledge the 
initiate brings back with them from their own trav-
els. A Planar Mage called Taxidot is currently the 
chairperson of PRiSM, although there is no strict 
hierarchy within the group. But Taxidot is current-
ly the curator of the PRiSM library, so contacting 
it would be a good first step. 
> I can’t speak to their magic ability, but their databases 
are incredible. They have more collected about various 
metaplanes than anywhere else I’ve seen. They let 
me browse a bit when I gave them some information 
regarding a spirit quest I took last year. Of course, most 
of their stuff is small-time: little demi-planes, elemental 
stuff, etc. But once in a while, you’ll come across a gem. 
Taxidot is a strange little thing, though. Nice enough, but 
a pretty odd duck. 
> Red
RED MAGIC
Practitioners of Red Magic believe that all animal 
life across the universe (and beyond) is connected 
through a force the call the Domain of Red. While not 
ultimately related to Green Magic, the ancient prac-
tice of Red Magic was discovered around the same 
time, in the second of the two sunken cities explored 
by the Tzuri Group. 
Of course, many Red mages believe that there 
are those who have been tapping into Red Mag-
ic since the Awakening began, even if they didn’t 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
ROLE-PLAYING A PLANAR MAGE
There is no set way a Planar mage behaves. The only 
thing to keep in mind is that Planar mages are obsessed/
convinced by the idea that the metaplanes are a truer, more 
pure expression of mana than what Earth can offer. As such, 
they believe the entities found there are more true as well. The 
spirit pact that the mage shares with the entity acts as a filter 
for the mage’s perception of the word and should affect their 
behavior accordingly. A malevolent spirit, therefore, should 
constantly tempt the mage toward violence or abhorrent 
behavior, while a harmonious entity might act as an angel on 
the shoulder of a runner. 
PLANAR MAGES
Combat: Guardian
Detection: Guidance
Health: Water
Illusion: Air
Manipulation: Task
Drain: Willpower + Logic
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Agony, Chaotic World, Convert Blood To Ichor, Euphoria, 
Ghoulish Strength, Inflict Disease
88    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 89 =====
know they were doing it. In particular, Bali Rand-
hawa, a Red mage, teaches that all those who 
shapeshift from animal to metahuman or reverse, 
are using magic from the Domain of Red to do so. 
Likewise, those adepts who follow the Beast’s way 
are considered kin by Red mages. 
The exact relationship between Red Magic and 
Green Magic is unclear, although they were redis-
covered in close proximity to each other, both by 
the Tzuri Group, who have not been heard from in 
over a decade.
> Tzuri knows more than they are revealing about these 
traditions. It is what they do not know that may be the 
doom of many. 
> Man-of-Many-Names
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Any animal mentor spirit fits in well within the 
paradigm of Red Magic. 
IDEALS
Red mages do not see intelligence as a sign of 
importance. Rather, they see each branch of the 
animal kingdom as having its own evolutionary 
paths, which have overlapped in the past and will 
continue to intertwine in the future. In the minds 
of Red mages, it is the blood that gives the power. 
They may or may not respect plant life, but every 
animal has value, even if it is for food, and they 
have a high aversion to wasting blood, which in-
cludes using it for dark magic.
SORCERY
Red Mages practice spellcasting normally.
CONJURING
Red Mages practice conjuring normally.
ENCHANTING
Red Mages practice enchanting normally. 
RED MAGE RULES
• Cannot summon Plant spirits.
• Gain +2 to summon Beast Spirits.
• At initiate grade 2, may learn the Attune 
Animal ritual as if they were an adept.
• At initiate grade 4, gains the Totem Form 
(Animal) ability.
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
I can’t recommend anyone seeking out “Bat-
tle-Dog” Ramone, as I’ve never heard of anyone 
being able to stand him for very long, and he 
has an incredible tendency to caustically offend 
even the most easygoing of seekers. Having said 
that, he is the most knowledgeable Red mage on 
the planet. More often than not, he trains pupils 
for a year or so until they get the basics down, 
and then they quit, seeking other means of com-
muning with the Domain of the Red. After leav -
ing Battle-Dog, Reds tend to join the Redwork, a 
network of Red mages who count being taught 
by Ramone as a badge of honor. But if you are a 
glutton for punishment, head to New York City.
> I hate that Ramone. He is a grade-A drekhole. Some of 
his “students” are real pros, but this guy is impossible to 
work with. 
> Picador
ROLE-PLAYING A RED MAGE
Red mages are not barbaric, nor are they mindless. They 
tend to be animalistic, however. What that means to each 
individual Red mage is up to the player. What they have in 
common is a deep respect for animal life in all of its forms. This 
applies to metahumanity as well, but many Red mages blame 
metahumanity in general for the poor treatment of the world’s 
animal life and thus may be more willing to deal out vengeance 
to those they see as responsible. 
RED MAGIC
Combat: Beast
Detection: Air or Beast
Health: Water or Beast
Illusion: Earth or Beast
Manipulation: Man
Drain: Willpower + Intuition
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Animal Sense, Barrage, Calm Animal, Calm Pack, Claw, 
Control Animal, Control Pack, Critter Form, Shapechange, 
Translate
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    89
===== PDF PAGE IDX 90 =====
THE ROMANI TRADITION
Romani spiritualism has been strongly influenced 
by the mysticism of the ancient Vedic culture 
from which the Romani people emerged nearly 
a millennium ago. Almost all Roma magic is sha-
manic and related to nature. Except for a few ba-
sic, general precepts, the Roma subscribe to no 
consistent world view; many Roma have Catho-
lic or Orthodox Christian leanings, others have 
an Islamic bent, and a growing number seek to 
explore their people’s Indian roots. Most Roma 
fetishes are nature-oriented, though they also 
use tarot cards to forecast the future. The city 
of Berlin is home to the Roma’s most important 
institution, the Zentralrat (Central Council). The 
Roma maintain loose but friendly connections 
to the Weise; nationalistic schools of magic such 
as the Runenthing treat them with open hostili-
ty. With the significant exceptions of Erfurt and 
Berlin universities, academia’s magicians tend to 
ignore the Roma.
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Almost all Romani tribes see the Great Mother 
as the most important power. By whatever name 
the different tribes choose to call her, she is the 
idol of most Roma magicians. The Dragonslayer 
and the Wild Huntsman are the next most com-
mon. Totems related to birds, horses, or water are 
also common among many Romani mages.
IDEALS
Romani mages typically disdain organized reli-
gion. Alternatively, they often adopt the dom-
inant religion where they live, describing them-
selves as “many stars scattered in the sight of 
God.”  They live by a complex set of rules that 
govern cleanliness, purity, respect, honor, and 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
90    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 91 =====
justice. These rules are called “Rromano.” Rro-
mano means acting with dignity and respect as a 
Roma person, as part of the worldview known as 
“Rromanipé.”
SORCERY
There is a connection to spiritual and bodily clean-
liness and the flow of magic for practitioners of 
the Romani tradition. Such purification rituals are 
done at the beginning of the day prior to using 
magic, otherwise bad karma can befall the caster. 
This also puts the use of healing magic out of the 
hands of the traditionalist because of the contact 
with the unclean body/bodily fluids.
CONJURING
While the Romani can conjure spirits, what is 
summoned depends on the other religious influ-
ences on the tribe.
ENCHANTING
Romani mages use Enchanting as normal. 
ROMANI MAGE RULES
Traditionalist Romani practice magic with the fol-
lowing rules:
• Cannot stay in the same place for more 
than a week.
• Cannot own a permanent residence that is 
not readily mobile.
• Romani must bathe daily for bodily and 
spiritual cleansing before practicing mag-
ic. (Cannot practice magic if they have not 
bathed in the previous tweenty-four hours.)
• Cannot cast Health spells or preparations.
• Gain one 5 Karma Mastery quality.
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Vadoma Shaw is the founder of the Linked Chain, 
a network of Awakened Romani individuals. She 
is part diva, part Matrix icon, part performer, part 
teacher, and all parts intense. I know it is cliché, 
but she literally ran away from home and joined a 
Romani circus. She studied magic and circus skills 
while performing on the streets of various west-
ern European cities. She doesn’t teach often, but 
she is regarded as the best (or at least most well-
known) practitioner of Romani magic. 
TAROT
The recent revelations regarding the so-called 
Sixth World Tarot stirred up quite a bit of discus-
sion and controversy among the Awakened com-
munity. See the recent JackPoint upload Book of 
the Lost for more details, most of which I don’t 
wish to unpack here. However, something I did 
want to comment on was the resurgence of Tarot 
magic as a tradition, not simply some sort of add-
on to another magical worldview. Even before 
the Awakening, practitioners of tarot had exten-
sive networks used to compare notes, share best 
practices, and otherwise gain support. 
In more recent years, one particular network, 
the Arcane Tarot Guild, began to shed light on 
far less mundane topics. Spotty reports came in 
from tarot practitioners within the guild that spirits 
were randomly manifesting during routine client 
readings. At first, these reports were few and far 
between, but as the influence of the Sixth World 
Tarot has grown, instances have been much more 
frequent. The guild quickly pieced together the 
circumstances and practices common to each 
of these events, and these common elements 
formed the basis of the Tarot tradition. In truth, the 
Tarot tradition is quite old, with various cultures 
grasping only pieces left over from widespread 
use in ancient times. 
In essence, Tarot is a Divination and Manifesta-
tion tradition. Depending on the skill of the prac-
titioner, spirits can aid not just in prophetic read-
ings, but also in any tasks where the mage wishes 
to receive assistance. 
Finding a group or a mentor to teach the Tarot 
tradition is not difficult. The difficulty lies in finding 
someone who is truly in tune with the Arcana and 
ROMANI TRADITION
Combat: Fire
Detection: Air
Health: Plant
Illusion: Water
Manipulation: Earth
Drain: Willpower + Willpower
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Clairaudience, Clairvoyance, Deflection, Detect Spells, 
Fashion, Inflict Disease, Light
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    91
===== PDF PAGE IDX 92 =====
not just a huckster who happens to be awakened 
trying to earn a buck from you. The Arcane Tarot 
Guild is a good place to start, but as with all things 
related to the Tarot, there is no one group that has 
every answer. Another good place to start is the 
Oracle Society, an alliance of interested academics 
pursuing any and all knowledge of the Sixth World 
Tarot. They aren’t as into practice as the Guild, but 
there is at least some overlap in the groups. 
Lower-level initiates of the Tarot tradition 
would do well to remember that just because they 
have devoted themselves to the Arcana, the Ar -
cana are not nearly as devoted to them in return. 
The full extent to which the Tarot reflects or guides 
history and life in the Sixth World has yet to be de-
termined, but it is certain that the cards, and the 
associated spirits, do not serve practitioners in the 
same way as spirits in other traditions. The Tarot 
serves as a sort of matrix or lens through which 
the mage interacts with the astral realm. This pro-
tects the summoner to some extent, but it also al-
lows much more freedom on the part of the spirits 
to act as they see fit. 
While the Tarot gives access to potential pow -
er, spirits whose power is too great in relation to 
the initiate’s grade may simply refuse to answer at 
all, or may deliberately choose to ignore the wish-
es of the mage. 
> So, chip-truth. This mage I know decides that the Tarot 
tradition is his speed. He’s always been into it, and so he 
gives it a whirl. Unfortunately for him, his training wasn’t 
complete. He’s going up against Ares CorpSec and draws 
the King of Batons. Fire spirit appears and torches the 
Ares guys, his runner team, and the rest of the building 
with him in it. Swear to Ghost. 
> Old Crow
 
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Many initiates of the Tarot tradition say that they 
were led there by the spirit of Oracle (or a simi-
lar mentor, such as Teacher or Mystic). The focus 
on Divination often leads a Tarot mage to seek a 
mentor spirit with a like purpose.  
IDEALS 
Many Tarot mages are accused of being de-
tached from the world. In many cases, their read-
ings and outlooks seem like cold acceptance or 
unfeeling determinism. And yet, this is not quite 
true. Tarot mages describe themselves not as 
unfeeling, but struggling to understand the uni-
verse through the Arcana, which they believe 
has true insight on the past, present, and future. 
What seems like determinism to the uninitiated 
is instead a way of practicing patience. There is 
no use for the Tarot mage to jump to conclusions 
or act rashly when a new reading or experience 
could alter a previous interpretation. As a result, 
Tarot mages might seem resigned, even while 
their personalities are often passionate, but in 
reality, they are simply waiting for more truth to 
be revealed. 
SORCERY
Tarot mages practice skills in the Sorcery skill 
group normally. 
CONJURING
Tarot mages can use the Conjuring skill group as 
normal, but once they reach a second level of ini-
tiation, they are able to perform a special form of 
Summoning called Tarot Summoning. 
When a mage summons a spirit using the 
Tarot, normal Summoning rules do not apply. 
Instead, the mage declares they are Tarot Sum-
moning, and then shuffles the deck and draws a 
card (a Complex Action). The mage must resist 
Stun Drain equal to the Force of the spirit indicat-
ed by the card (use Force 10 for Major Arcana). If 
the mage remains conscious, the corresponding 
spirit is summoned for one task only, and it may 
be commanded by the mage immediately with a 
Free Action. If the requirement for the card has 
not been met, no spirit is summoned.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
ROLE-PLAYING A TAROT MAGE
Role playing a Tarot mage can be quite fun. On one hand, 
there is an element of chance involved, which can make 
using Tarot summoning in combat rather interesting. On the 
other hand, a mage committed to the Tarot can play up being 
mysterious and enigmatic, blaming any strange reaction to 
circumstances as “this is just what I have seen in the cards 
…” As often as the mage can reference the Tarot or offer 
odd bits of wisdom or advice to other players or NPCs, the 
better! Further, being able to use the Sixth World Tarot deck 
as a prop and role-playing tool in-game allows one more 
level of immersion.
92    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 93 =====
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
TAROT SUMMONING
Use the following chart to see what kind of spirit is summoned 
when a card is drawn. 
The different suits of the Arcana correspond to different spirit 
types—the Suit of Blades aligns with air, Coins with earth, Batons 
with fire, and Cups with water. When a card from any of these suits 
is drawn, the summoned spirit matches the corresponding type. 
The number on the card will be the Force of the spirit summoned. 
Aces count as 1. This means that if the Tarot mage declares they 
are using Tarot Summoning, then draws the Five of Batons card, a 
Force 5 fire spirit will be summoned, and the mage may immediately 
give the spirit a command. 
The exceptions to this are the face cards (King, Queen, Knight, 
and Page) and the Major Arcana (cards that do not correspond to 
Blades, Coins, Batons, or Cups). When a face card is drawn, the 
spirit summoned will still be of the type corresponding to the suit 
drawn, but with the following differences:
• Spirits summoned by Page cards will always be Force 9 and 
will immediately use their Guard power on the summoner’s 
entire team. If summoned outside of combat, the spirit 
continues to guard the summoner and allies until either dawn 
or dusk arrives, or until it prevents an accident or glitch. The 
spirit then returns home.
• 
• Spirits summoned by Knight cards will always be Force 10 and 
will immediately materialize and use one elemental attack 
power against an enemy. If summoned outside of combat, the 
spirit returns to its home. 
• 
• Spirits summoned by Queen cards will always be Force 11 
and will immediately materialize and use Magical Guard on 
the summoner and allies until the end of combat. If summoned 
outside of combat, the spirit instead offers a single use of its 
Divining ability. It then returns home. 
• 
• Spirits summoned by King cards will always be Force 12 and 
will immediately materialize and use the Engulf power on 
whoever the spirit deems the largest threat to the summoner 
(gamemaster discretion). The spirit will remain until the 
enemy is subdued and combat is over. If summoned outside 
of combat, the spirit instead offers a single use of its Divining 
ability. It then returns home. 
Whenever a card from the Major Arcana is drawn, an unknown 
spirit grants the following effect (treat as a Mentor Spirit advantage/
disadvantage). If in combat, the effect lasts until combat ends. If 
summoned outside of combat, the effect lasts five minutes. 
• The Bastard: All enemies gain +2 to dice rolls against 
summoner.
• The Matrix: Summoner and allies gain +2 dice on Matrix-
related tests.
• The High Priestess: Summoner gains +2 dice to Conjuring skill 
group.
• Aes Sidhe Banrigh: Summoner may immediately draw 2 more 
cards, summoning or applying both.
• The Chief Executive: Summoner may make an immediate 
Intimidation test against an enemy with a +4 dice pool bonus.
• The Higher Power: Summoner gains 1 free point of Edge until 
the end of combat.
• The Avatars: Summoner gains +2 to attack rolls and +2 to 
Spellcasting tests.
• The Ride: Summoner gains an immediate +2D6 to their 
initiative score (max 5D6).
• Discipline: Summoner gains +2 to all limits.
• The Hermit: Summoner gains +4 to all dice rolls, everyone else 
within 5 meters suffers –2 to all dice rolls. 
• The Wheel of Fortune: Roll 1D6. On a 1, 3, or 5, the summoner 
gains +3 to all rolls. On a 2, 4, or 6, summoner experiences a 
–3 penalty on all rolls. 
• The Vigilante: A Force 12 spirit of man is summoned and may 
immediately be given one command. 
• The Hanged Man: Summoner receives a –3 dice pool penalty 
to all defense rolls. 
• …404…: The Edge value of the summoner is reduced to 1 until 
the end of combat.
• Threshold: Summoner may immediately choose a card from 
the minor arcana and summon that spirit. 
• The Dragon: A nearby dragon is alerted to your presence on 
the astral plane. (Gamemaster chooses what this means for 
the summoner.)
• The Tower: Summoner gains +4 to armor and ignores wound 
penalties.
• The Comet: Summoner gains +4 to Spellcasting rolls. 
• The Shadows: Summoner gains +4 to defense rolls. 
• The Eclipse: Enemies are at –4 to hit summoner. 
• Karma: Summoner immediately gains a temporary point of 
Edge. After combat is over, summoner loses 1 Karma. 
• The Awakened World: Summoner and allies gain +3 to 
Conjuring, Enchanting, and Sorcery rolls. 
<< TRADITIONS    93
===== PDF PAGE IDX 94 =====
ENCHANTING
Tarot mages practice skills in the Enchanting skill 
group normally. 
NOTABLE FEATURE
Tarot mages rely on Tarot decks for their access 
to magic. Truthfully speaking, it is the symbolism 
on the deck that is important, so in a pinch, a Tar -
ot mage could get by using scraps of paper with 
scribbles on them, as long as the mage has had 
time to bond with the deck. 
TAROT MAGE RULES
• Initiates of the Tarot Tradition must take 
Divination for their first metamagic.
• At the second grade of initiation, Tarot 
mages may take the Tarot Summoning 
metamagic. 
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Karmen Na’ib is the current head of the Arcane 
Tarot Guild. While she rarely accepts new stu-
dents, many of her pupils teach newer initiates 
on her behalf. The Arcane Tarot Guild is not par -
ticularly hierarchical, so there is not much harm in 
joining the guild and beginning to network with 
other Tarot mages. 
Alternatively, Jasper Dejong is a Tarot mage 
who broke off from the Arcane Tarot Guild in its 
earliest incarnations. He has the reputation of be-
ing harsh and often using the Arcana for personal 
gain, yet he eagerly accepts new students. 
Professor Stuart Bronswick is a member of 
the Oracle Society who actually practices the Tarot 
as well as studies it academically. He operates out 
of Elemental Hall as part of the University of Chi-
cago’s Magical Studies program and works closely 
with the Astral Space Preservation Society there. 
He’s a busy guy, but if he thinks you can help him 
research the Tarot, he’ll teach you what he knows 
in exchange for field research.
> Be careful. “Field research” essentially means that 
Bronswick sends you out on some crazy-ass magical road 
trip where you get kidnapped and sent to a different world 
where you get your ass kicked, your gear stolen, and your 
hospital stay assured. 
> Borderline
> Speaking from experience, hon?
> Frosty
> I needed the money. 
> Borderline
> Don’t we all.
> Bull
MENTOR SPIRITS
POSTED BY: AXIS MUNDI
Along with the new traditions, I have been pay -
ing attention to some mentor spirits that are also 
new to me. Some of these—well, they aren’t nec-
essarily new, but the way they are being followed 
is. See the bit below on globalization for more de-
tails. I’m always interested in more info regarding 
totems or mentor spirits, as I am working toward 
a theory about how they fit into our discussion 
about UMT, so when you hear of any, send the 
info my way. 
DOVE
The mentor spirit Dove is a messenger of peace 
and a mediator for harmony. Often, those who 
are found following Dove care so deeply that 
they are willing to endure harm for the safety of 
others. Doves seek to remain aware and in touch 
with the environment around her. She is in tune 
with her environment, and she prides herself on 
remaining aware in all circumstances. Encourag-
ing purity and integrity, followers of Dove often 
have difficulty remaining true to their highest 
ideals, but Dove also represents gentleness and 
forgiveness, allowing those on her path to dust 
themselves off and try again.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
TAROT TRADITION
Combat: Air
Detection: Fire
Health: Water
Illusion: Man
Manipulation: Earth
Drain: Willpower + Logic
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Clairaudience, Clairvoyance, Combat Sense, Thought 
Recognition
94    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 95 =====
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 dice pool modifier for Negotiation tests.
Magician: +1 dice pool modifier for casting Health 
spells, +1 dice pool modifier to summon air spirits.
Adept: Gain 1 free level of Enhanced Perception.
DISADVANTAGES
Dove discourages combat whenever possible. 
As such, those who follow Dove are at –2 dice 
pool modifier to cast Combat spells or when using 
lethal force. 
Similar Archetypes: Peace
PLANAR ENTITY
Taking Planar Entity as a mentor spirit is only 
available to Planar mages. The Planar mage must 
choose (with gamemaster permission) a free 
spirit or extraplanar entity to serve as a mentor 
spirit. The gamemaster determines what advan-
tages the spirit brings to the pact with the player, 
but they should be complementary to the spirit’s 
influence. For example, a free fire spirit may grant 
+2 when casting fire-based spells, whereas a she-
dim may grant immunity to aging. 
ADVANTAGES
All: Determined by spirit type and gamemaster 
approval.
Magician: Determined by spirit type and 
gamemaster approval.
Adept: Determined by spirit type and gamemaster 
approval.
DISADVANTAGES
Taking on an extraplanar entity into one’s soul 
is not without its drawbacks. Much of their mental 
ability is taken up keeping themselves from losing 
their identity as a result of their shared existence. 
Mages suffer a –2 dice pool penalty when making 
tests involving Willpower. 
Similar Archetypes: None.
ARCANA
Arcana is not a traditional mentor spirit as such, 
but an interaction that its followers describe as an 
intimacy with the Tarot. Followers of the Arcana 
place their decisions and fates in the hands of 
the cards, as they believe that their destiny can 
be found there, along with great power. While 
the traditional mentor relationship isn’t present, 
the influence of the Arcana is felt in more tangi-
ble ways. Those under the sway of Arcana are not 
just seers or fortune tellers, but believers in the 
will of magic itself. Of course, the will of the Tarot 
is always open to interpretation, and so adher -
ents are not monolithic in their belief or practice. 
For its part, while Arcana might not speak with 
words, the cards are always present for guidance. 
ADVANTAGES
All: Once per day, when making a decision or test 
influenced by a Tarot reading/card, may re-roll misses 
as if they had used Edge. 
Magician: +1 dice pool modifier for casting 
Detection spells, an additional +2 dice pool modifier 
to cast Clairvoyance spells.
Adept: Gain 2 free levels of Danger Sense.
DISADVANTAGES
Followers of the Arcana must use Tarot decks or 
individual cards as foci and fetishes, or else take –2 
when attempting to use them. 
The Tarot Arcana plays such a major part in the 
lives of its adherents that when a follower of Arcana 
becomes a grade 1 initiate, they must choose cen-
tering or adept centering for their first benefit, with 
the cards of Tarot being the focus of their centering. 
Similar Archetypes: Gambler, Lady Luck
HOLY TEXT
Throughout history, the faithful of myriad faiths 
have claimed that their particular sacred scriptures 
spoke to them. For some, this guidance may come 
in the form of the words themselves, but for oth-
ers, it is a more mystical experience where the text 
comes alive. Those who follow these texts have 
a solitary commitment to the values and insights 
they glean from them, and as such, there is noth-
ing in this world that can shake their confidence or 
commitment to them. While the texts are all differ-
ent, the discipline used in reading, understanding, 
and practicing their words is common. 
ADVANTAGES
All: Gain +4 ranks of (Choose Holy Text) 
Knowledge Skill.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    95
===== PDF PAGE IDX 96 =====
Magician: +2 dice pool modifier when casting 
Health spells or using the Banishing skill (choose 
one).
Adept: Gain 1 free level of Empathic Healing or 
Mystic Armor (choose one).
DISADVANTAGES
Having a Holy Text means that some actions will 
be considered illicit or counter to the teachings of the 
text. When a follower of a Holy Text wishes to take 
an action that is contrary to the teaching of the text 
(whatever that text is), they must pass a Charisma + 
Willpower (4) Test to take the action.
Similar Archetypes: Vedas, Dhammapada, Torah, 
Bible, Qur’an, Book of Mormon
DEATH
Every belief system deals with Death. Either they 
worship it as a god, or their god fights against it. 
But it is present. Those who take Death on as a 
mentor spirit are not necessarily evil (although 
there are those), but they would suggest they 
see the world for what it truly is. Temporary. 
Those who follow Death are not bothered by 
the final destination of the living, but rather they 
celebrate it and spend their time alive preparing 
for the inevitable. Along with the fixation on the 
un-living comes a knowledge of and fascination 
with those subjects that are traditionally taboo 
in most societies: undead, necromancy, corps-
es, and disease. These aren’t the focus of death 
followers, but they are well-versed in them, as 
they have all been touched by their master’s 
cold embrace. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
96    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 97 =====
ADVANTAGES
All: +4 ranks of the Knowledge Skill Anatomy, 
Disease, Infected, or Undead (choose one).
Magician: +2 dice pool modifier when casting the 
spells Death Touch, Manaball, Manabolt, One Less, 
Slaughter, Slay.
Adept: Gain 1 free level of Killing Hands or Plague 
Cloud (choose one).
DISADVANTAGES
While followers of Death understand more than 
many how the body works, they are loathe to heal 
it, as they see the process of death and dying as the 
most sacred of events. In order for a follower of Death 
to attempt to help someone who is dying or injured, 
they must first pass a Charisma + Willpower (3) Test.
Similar Archetypes: Hades, Osiris, Hel, Dis Pater, 
Grim Reaper, Mannanan, Sheol
WAR
Some have said war is hell. Others have said war 
is all there is. One thing is certain, however. War is 
inevitable. Since the first time one tribe fought an-
other, there has been war, and there always will be. 
That is why gods of war have always been present 
in every pantheon. That is why the world’s nations 
and megacorporations still pay homage to War 
through military industrial complexes, R&D de-
partments, troop deployments, flag-waving civil 
religion, and honoring the military above all else, 
regardless of right or wrong. The Worship of War is 
alive and well, and as War’s followers know, there 
is always more that can be taught to those willing 
to listen and act. War can’t be considered “good,” 
but not truly evil either. War is inherently selfish, 
using violence as a means to get what one wants, 
although sometimes what one wants is violence 
for its own sake. Either suits War just fine. 
ADVANTAGES
All: After character creation, may purchase 
combat skills at rank 3 or higher for 1 less Karma. 
Magician: +2 dice pool modifier when casting 
Combat  spells, preparations, and rituals.
Adept: Gain 1 free level of Critical Strike. 
DISADVANTAGES
There is a distinct difference between noble com-
bat, fighting when one has to, and winning at all 
costs. War is about the latter. As a result, those who 
follow War fear losing more than they fear anything 
or anyone else. If it looks as if they are going to lose 
a battle, those with the War mentor must pass a Cha-
risma + Willpower (4) Test, or else use all means nec-
essary—including the lives, nuyen, and honor of their 
teammates—to overcome their adversary.
Similar Archetypes: Ares, Mixcoatl, Chi You, 
Woden, Indra, Mars
TOHU WA-BOHU 
In the beginning, there was only chaos. A vast, 
swirling morass of emptiness without form or 
function. Sources vary about what comes next, 
(the Big Bang, YHWH, Marduk, aliens) but Tohu 
Wa-Bohu is the name given to the nameless IT 
that preceded the more-or-less ordered uni-
verse we have now. Tohu Wa-Bohu is no devil, 
demiurge, or force of evil. Neither is it a trickster, 
prankster, or simple force of  chaos out to mix 
things up. Rather, it is the primal force of entropy 
that seeks to break down all life, all structure, all 
elements back into the chaotic dark from whence 
the universe emerged. Followers of Tohu Wa-Bo-
hu do not seek to rule the world, nor do they seek 
to correct it. They seek its end. Whether they 
want it now, or after they have had their fun, is 
up for debate, as followers of Tohu Wa-Bohu live 
to see every form of order brought low and for 
everything reasonable to be tossed into disarray. 
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 dice pool modifier for Intimidation or 
Demolitions tests (choose one).
Magician: Gain the Witness My Hate quality for 
free. 
Adept: Gain the Adept Accident power for free (p. 
190, Hard Targets). 
DISADVANTAGES
Followers of Tohu Wa-Bohu can be difficult to 
work with, as they don’t like goals, which seem to 
them like building instead of tearing down. Follow-
ers gain the Driven quality, in which the focus is 
the opportunity to destroy something meaningful. 
Further, they find it hard to work in groups given 
their destructive nature. They can never benefit 
from teamwork or leadership bonuses. 
Similar Archetypes: Tiamat, Yam, Abyss
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    97
===== PDF PAGE IDX 98 =====
GREEN MAN
The Green Man mentor spirit, not to be confused 
with the green man extraplanar spirit, is a totem 
of the natural life and death cycles of plants. 
Green Man is that life-giving and nurturing as-
pect of nature, and the embodiment of it. While 
most consider vegetation to be passive, there is 
rather a wild element to the growth and death 
gathered together in plant life. While other, more 
particular totems like Oak and Great Mother are 
also nature spirits, Green Man is solely focused 
on plant life in all of its diversity and breadth. 
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 dice pool modifier for Negotiation Tests.
Magician: +2 dice pool modifier to summon 
Plant Spirits.
Adept: Gain 2 free levels of Rooting (p. 23, 
Shadow Spells). 
DISADVANTAGES
Followers of the Green Man value Earth’s flo-
ra above almost anything else. As such, they will 
not stand idly by while plant life is wantonly de-
stroyed. That isn’t to say that every follower must 
avenge every broken branch, but when significant 
damage is being done to vegetation, they must 
pass a Charisma + Willpower (3) Test or use all 
means possible to stop the destruction. 
Similar Archetypes: Tree, Viridios
SUN
Sun is the life giver of the world. Sun loves to shine 
on and give warmth to everyone. On the other 
hand, it does not trust those who do their deeds 
where Sun cannot see them. Similar to fire, the 
Sun can be a force for life through heat, light, and 
life, but can also be a force for great destruction if 
not respected. Those who follow Sun value hon-
or, honesty, and integrity. As a result, shadowrun-
ners who follow Sun are a rare sort indeed, often 
falling into groups of like-minded individuals. Sun 
is among the most likely mentors to strip powers 
away from wayward shamans, so those who follow 
it should be on their guard against giving offense. 
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 dice pool modifier for Perception tests 
when outside during the day. 
Magician: +2 dice pool modifier when casting 
Sun- or Fire-based spells. 
Adept: Gain 3 free levels of Temperature Tolerance 
(only to heat, not cold).
DISADVANTAGES
Followers of Sun must pass a Charisma + Willpow-
er (4) Test in order to purposefully deceive others.
Similar Archetypes: Apollo, Ra, Doumu, Sol, 
Aryaman
DARK KING
Most know him as the keeper of the dead with 
a kingdom in the underworld.  Followers of the 
Dark King know him as the keeper of many se-
crets, as “taking it to the grave” doesn’t apply to 
him. Followers are business suits who deal with 
secrets. Some are simple blackmailers or insider 
traders; others are more mystical, looking to ne-
gotiate with spirits for more esoteric knowledge. 
Unfortunately for some, the cost is at times no 
object.
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 dice to Intimidation tests.
Magician: +2 dice to Contractual Rituals.
Adept: Gain Spirit Ram for free.
DISADVANTAGES
The odd connection followers have to the Dark 
King makes pain and dying much more signifi-
cant. It’s as if the Dark King wants his followers to 
join his court soon and tell him of their collected 
secrets. Followers receive a –1 dice pool penalty 
when resisting physical damage.
MOON
Moon is changeable and secretive. She sees 
much from her high vantage point and keeps 
many secrets hidden from prying eyes under the 
veil of night. Moon is also a transformer, ever 
changing and unknowable. Followers of Moon 
are not aggressive, taking the subtler approach 
with any mission. They prefer to keep a low pro-
file and act through subterfuge.
ADVANTAGES
All:  +2 dice to Negotiation tests.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
98    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 99 =====
Magician: +2 dice for Illusion and transformation-
focused Manipulation spells, preparations, and spell 
rituals.
Adept: Gain 3 levels of Stillness for free.
DISADVANTAGES
Followers of Moon must make a Charisma + 
Willpower (4) Test in order to engage in direct con-
frontation; failure means they cannot make any ac-
tion considered as such. Negotiation is not consid-
ered confrontation (Moon loves discussion), but 
arguments fall into that category.
OAK
Followers of Oak are stalwart and silent. They lis-
ten to the world around them and calculate their 
next action. A follower may be slow to act, but 
when they make their move, they do it with con-
viction. He protects others, shielding small plants 
and moss from the elements. Strong shields, 
buildings, and ships are made from Oak. Follow -
ers protect anyone they have agreed to defend 
steadfastly, even unto death.
ADVANTAGES
All: +1 to Damage Resistance tests.
Magician: +2 dice pool bonus when  summoning 
plant or air spirits (choose 1 when selecting this 
mentor spirit).
Adept: Gain 2 levels of Stillness for free.
DISADVANTAGES
Must have a natural (meaning unaugmented) 
Body and Strength of 4 or greater to select this 
mentor spirit
STAG
Stag is noble and swift, a spirit of life and death. 
Stag represents the timeless cycle of birth, 
death, and rebirth that encompasses all living 
things. Followers of the Stag live life to the full-
est and do not forget slights to their dignity. 
Vengeance in the form of duels or single combat 
is quite common.
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 to Blades tests.
Magician: +2 to summoning earth spirits.
Adept: Gain +2 levels of Light Body for free.
DISADVANTAGES
Followers of the Stag demand respect, especially 
to those they give it to. Once disrespected, they must 
succeed in a Charisma + Willpower (3) Test, or they 
will deman satisfaction against the slight.
GREAT MOTHER
The Great Mother is the embodiment of life-giv -
ing nature, giving her bounty freely to all who 
need it. Those who mistake her generosity for 
weakness are asking for trouble. Like any moth-
er, she fights to the death to protect her children. 
Followers of the Great Mother are healers, both of 
the body and the spirit; they cannot refuse aid to 
anyone who needs it. Strict followers have a very 
stringent moral code. They must fight against the 
forces of corruption, whether environmental, so-
cial, political, or magical.
ADVANTAGES
All: When not in an urban area, gain +1 to any skill 
test with skills in the Outdoors skill group.
Magician: +2 for health spells, preparations, and 
spell rituals.
Adept: Gain Empathic Healing for free.
DISADVANTAGES
Treat any background count due to pollution or 
twisted element as twice the actual rating.
GLOBALIZATION  
AND MENTORS
One of the fastest growing fields of study at mag-
ical universities is the comparative study of indig-
enous spirits. After the initial shock of the Awak -
ening, much ink has been spilled observing how 
spirits from one region differ from their counter -
parts in other countries or cultures. One type of 
spirit in particular has been more difficult to ob-
serve, however. Mentor spirits have proven chal-
lenging to compare as they are not directly ob-
servable, but subsequent interviews with followers 
of these spirits have yielded surprising results. 
One example is the mentor spirit Raven. Pres-
ent in nearly all cultures (and having followers in 
most of them), Raven nonetheless presents itself 
differently in each of these cultures. The differ -
ences between followers of Raven in the Pacific 
Northwest compared to those in Northern Eu-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    99
===== PDF PAGE IDX 100 =====
rope, for example, have been extensively noted. 
As such, the scholarly consensus has been that the 
totem Raven in one place is not the same spirit as 
Raven in another. The totem Spider is another such 
example. What is recently being studied, however, 
is how these totem manifestations are similar to 
each other. This line of inquiry has led a few re-
searchers to hypothesize that these totems are 
not actually different entities, but the same entity 
condescending to interact with their followers in 
ways that they expect. Thus, when the followers of 
Raven from different cultures began correspond-
ing, they concluded the actual spirit Raven (if there 
is such a thing) must be something more than the 
individual expressions in each culture. See discus-
sion on Raven (alt) in the recent Book of The Lost 
upload for an example. Expect to see more of 
these alternate or “globalized” mentor spirits as 
the study of these spirits continues. 
SPIDER (ALT)
Spider is one of the more feared and despised 
totems in the Sixth World.  The threat posed by 
insect spirits is never far from the world’s con-
sciousness, and most metahumans still group 
spiders together with insects (although they are 
arachnids, scientifically speaking). But the fear of 
spiders goes deeper than that. Metahumanity has 
an almost biological fear or spiders, and for good 
evolutionary reasons, but that isn’t all Spider is. As 
many cultures know, Spider is not just one thing. 
Also known as Anansi, Iktomi, or Grandfather 
Spider, this totem has adapted quite well to the 
Sixth World. In regions across the globe, Spider 
presents as a trickster, schemer, and hunter. Fol-
lowers of Spider embody all of these traits and 
see Spider not as a boogeyman, but as a wise and 
powerful patron. 
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 dice pool modifier for tests using the 
Stealth skill group.
Magician: +2 dice pool modifier when casting 
Manipulation spells, preparations, and rituals.
Adept: Gain 2 free levels of Spirit Claw (although 
in this case, it manifests as a fang). 
DISADVANTAGES
Spider followers, like their mentor, become anx-
ious when events happen beyond their control. As 
such, they go to great lengths to limit the random-
ness of their encounters. When not following a plan 
or a plan doesn’t go according to plan, followers of 
Spider must pass a Charisma + Willpower (4) Test or 
suffer –2 to all rolls until a new plan is established. 
Similar Archetypes: Grandfather Spider, Anansi, 
Iktomi
WOLF (ALT)
While Wolf can often be a positive totem in Native 
American cultures, for most of the world and its 
mythologies, wolves have been nothing but trou-
ble.  Whether among the Germanic peoples, Indic, 
Finnic, Christian, Islamic, or Middle-Eastern, or in 
folk and fairy tales, wolves are often the hunter 
and enemy of the civilized world. That is not to say 
they’re evil, but certainly hostile and predatory on 
those too weak to defend themselves. 
ADVANTAGES
All: +1 dice pool modifier for tests using the 
Sneaking, Perception, Survival, and Tracking skills.
Magician: +1 dice pool modifier when casting 
Combat spells, preparations, and rituals.
Adept: Gain 2 free levels of Danger Sense. 
DISADVANTAGES
Wolf is not honorable. Wolf is a survivor and 
preys on the weak. Whenever a follower of Wolf 
sees an opportunity to survive by attacking or 
sacrificing the weak, they must pass a Charisma + 
Willpower (4) Test or attempt to seize the oppor -
tunity. This does not apply to those the Wolf con-
siders friends or family.
Similar Archetypes: Hyena, Vulture
RAT (ALT)
Contrary to the way that Westerners understand 
rats to be dirty, disease-ridden filth that exist 
within the cracks of society, Chinese culture has a 
much more positive understanding of the totem 
Rat. As the first animal of the Chinese zodiac, Rat 
occupies a place of prominence, with none of the 
negatives typically associated with dirty rodents. 
Rather, rats are seen as bringing vitality and intel-
ligence. Rat encourages creative problem-solv -
ing and alertness to potential threats. A life of 
following Rat can lead to tremendous fortune. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
100    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 101 =====
ADVANTAGES
All: +1 dice pool modifier for tests using the 
Perception and Sneaking skills. 
Magician: +1 dice pool modifier when casting 
Health spells, preparations, and rituals.
Adept: Gain 1 free level of Analytics. 
DISADVANTAGES
Rat is a loner by nature. As such, it is sometimes 
hard to trust others. Combined with Rat’s intoler -
ance for incompetence, this could lead to prob-
lems in a team environment. Followers of Rat can-
not receive aid or aid others with a Teamwork test 
unless they trust the individuals they are teaming 
with. Further, if they do trust the individuals, but 
that trust is broken through incompetence or be-
trayal, they must pass a Charisma + Willpower (4) 
Test to be able to use teamwork with that individ-
ual each time in the future. 
MAGICAL ODDITIES
POSTED BY: AXIS MUNDI
No matter how much we learn about magic, there 
is always that which lies outside of the fences we 
try to place around the arcane arts. Below are a 
few of those odd bits that don’t fit into any of our 
existing paradigms, but I can’t deny that they exist. 
HYBRID TRADITIONS
I remember once I met a guy who was raised in 
a strong Protestant family, and he practiced the 
faith quite strongly. In his twenties, he escaped 
corp life through a series of misadventures and 
ended up in the shadows. Once he displayed that 
he was touched with magic, a hermetic mage—
Sally Tsung, I believe—tried to give him training 
in the arts, but couldn’t figure why he was such 
a slow learner. Given time, Dog appeared to this 
guy, who was now calling himself Twist, and re-
vealed that he belonged to the shamanic tradi-
tion. Now, nothing in Twist’s past or family history 
suggested that he should would be a shaman, let 
alone have an animistic totem, which is why Twist 
resisted the gift so strongly. Given time, howev -
er, without giving up on his Protestant faith, he 
merged the two. Still believed in God, in the tradi-
tion of his Protestant upbringing, but also accept-
ed the tutelage of Dog. Ended up doing some 
pretty fantastical stuff, too, if the rumors are true. 
Point being, for lack of a better phrase, Twist had 
to find his own truth. Over time, I’ve seen quite 
a few of these tradition-bending mages. They 
remain rare, and they struggle to find adequate 
training, but they are just as effective as others, 
regardless of the secrets of their power. 
AWAKENED MARTIAL ARTS
I didn’t really know where else to put this, but 
once I saw it for myself, I had to share. Hap-
sum-Do, or the Way of Unified Mana, is the first 
truly Awakened martial art. There have been oth-
ers who have combined elements of magic into 
existing martial traditions, but this is the first art 
available only to the Awakened. Trust me, once 
you see it in action, it is hard to forget. 
WAY OF UNIFIED MANA 
(HAPSUM-DO)
Bearing similarities to Aikido and Jujutsu, the Way 
of Unified Mana seeks to use the power of its op-
ponent against them. While other martial arts are 
limited to physics and anatomy as they strike op-
ponents with their own force, the Way of Unified 
Mana goes a step further, using the enemy’s own 
essence against them, and their magic as well, if 
available. Practitioners must be Awakened to use 
this technique, but they use as little of their own 
mana as possible during a fight, preferring to de-
feat opponents with their own force. Only offi-
cially taught by Grandmaster “Barghest” Knorr, it 
HYBRID TRADITIONS
A player wishing to follow a Hybrid Tradition may merge 
two traditions together to create something different. In order 
to create a Hybrid Tradition, choose two existing traditions 
and replace one or all of the Ideals, Related Mentor Spirits, or 
Preferred Spells from one tradition with the same categories 
from the other. For example, a hermetic-shaman may have been 
raised in the Native American Nations, valuing the land and 
harmony with nature and follow Coyote, but instead of “feeling” 
magic, they may instead take a scientific and formulaic 
approach to mana. They take the ideals and mentor spirit from 
a shamanic tradition and use the rest of the hermetic tradition 
paradigm. No other parts of the traditions may be swapped 
(unless the gamemaster gives permission). 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    101
===== PDF PAGE IDX 102 =====
has been gaining favor among adepts as the Bar -
ghest’s renown grows. Unfortunately, the grand-
master is itinerant and never stays in one place 
very long. He has taken on students recently 
from Neo-Tokyo, Seoul, and the DWF sprawl of all 
places, and shows no signs of slowing down his 
instruction despite rumors that he is over eighty 
years old.
> I knew Knorr’s mentor, Grand Master Duvall. Duvall wasn’t 
Awakened, but when he saw Knorr was, he adapted his 
training and guided Knorr into developing the art. But you 
are right, Axis, that was a long, long time ago. There’s no 
way Knorr is human.
> Red
> Well, he isn’t an elf or a dwarf, either. Perhaps some form 
of magical longevity?
> Axis Mundi
> Why do they call him Barghest?
> Borderline
> Because he kicks ass, he’s scary as hell, and it sounds cool.
> Red
Available Techniques: Called Shot (Disarm), 
Mana Choke, Counterstrike, Yielding Force (Count-
er Strike, Throw), Mana Strike
New Metamagics available: Once initiated, 
practitioners gain access to the Harmonious De-
fense and Harmonious Reflection metamagics 
(see p. 46). 
Prerequisites: 15 Karma cost, must be an ad-
ept or mystic adept
MAGICAL 
DEMOGRAPHICS
POSTED BY: WINTERHAWK
Thanks to Axis for the post regarding traditions. 
However, without a discussion about magical de-
mographics, the discussion is incomplete. Under -
standing how rare magicians are, and what sort 
of magical practitioners they might be, is in many 
ways more important than knowing what form of 
magic that they follow. A fireball from a shaman 
or hermetic will cook you the same, but knowing 
that the security mage armed with one can’t do 
anything about spirits? Now, you have a tactic.
Magical Talent is found in about one percent 
of the population, as is often reported, but that’s 
something of an illusionary number as about half 
of those people don’t know they have any Talent, 
or it’s so minor (I can turn blue into a lighter shade 
of blue!) as to be effectively useless. The worst 
of these cases are those semi-aware of the astral, 
who hear and see just enough to go mad, never 
able to gain enough to hear what the whispers say. 
Or perhaps they learn that the things they see out 
of the corner of their eye are real but can be dealt 
with. Young suicides are tragic, and the impor -
tance of avoiding them can help mages find each 
other, making secondary families—which, in turn, 
is something corporate headhunters value when 
they can find them.
> Suicide rates jumped five-fold during the run-up to Halley’s 
Comet and remained high until it left Earth’s general area. 
A boost in magic while it was around is blamed for this, as 
many more people than usual developed minor magic.
> Butch
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
NEW MARTIAL ARTS TECHNIQUES
MANA CHOKE
This technique is a variant of normal Constrictor’s Crush, 
except instead of doing damage to the target by restricting air or 
blood flow, the user interferes with the flow of mana to the target 
instead. Similar to disrupting ley lines, the user inflicts drain on 
the target equal to physical or stun damage the attack would have 
done. This technique only works on Awakened foes.
MANA STRIKE
Many threats in the Sixth World are resistant, or immune 
altogether, to mundane attacks. This technique functions as a 
normal unarmed attack, except that the martial artist channels 
mana through the strike. As a result, the attack functions as 
magical for the purposes of fighting enemies resistant or immune 
to normal weapons. 
102    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 103 =====
So, there’s seven mages in a thousand, right? 
Wrong! Six out of seven of those with enough 
magic to count are aspected, not full mages. 
These are your sorcerers, your conjurers, your 
travelers … they’re not as powerful in general, 
but with only one area to focus on, you’d be sur -
prised by what kinds of tricks they can roll out. 
This puts the number of full mages at around 
one in one thousand. That means that there are 
about a thousand mages per million people in 
any metropolitan area, but this ratio is skewed by 
demand; more mages are found in cities than in 
rural areas, as corporations actively recruit them 
with high pay and prestige.
> As of January 1, 2079, Seattle has 1,414 registered full 
mages, but 8,849 aspected. There clearly are SINless 
mages who would bulk up those numbers.
> Icarus
> Six-figure salaries plus perks are a given for full mages. 
There simply aren’t enough good mages to go around, 
let alone ones who also have a knack for, say, deep-
delving into the astral or who care to learn complex 
molecular biology instead of enjoying sex, drugs, and 
rock and roll. Management is quite forgiving of mage 
quirks and eccentricities due to this.
> Winterhawk
> If corporate life is so good, why do so many run the streets?
> Riot
> Coyote and time clocks don’t mix.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> Tradition pushes people in odd directions; some can’t 
handle the pressure, others are natural rebels, some 
have a core of civic justice, and so on and so forth. Many 
shadowrunners could have a great life working for The 
Man if they so choose.
> Kia
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    103
===== PDF PAGE IDX 104 =====
> All it costs is your soul.
> Chainmaker
> Honestly, most shadowrunning teams don’t even have 
magical support, while most of those who do have adepts 
of some kind. Full mages are as rare as hen’s teeth out 
here. If you’re lucky enough to have one, your team is elite 
by default.
> Stone
> Hoist one for Sally Tsung.
> Bull
Since everyone wants magical support for their 
department, but there aren’t enough full mages, 
it means that many roles are filled by aspected 
individuals instead. Security teams tend to have 
sorcerers who can drop battlefield spells, but who 
can’t do astral recon. Conjurers keep spirits on pa-
trol or work on wards, but they can’t generate the 
spark of a fireball. Travelers, or astral adepts, are the 
most overlooked, focusing on research and explo-
ration for the most part, but some focus on astral 
combat and are absolutely brutal in that field. We 
all know spellcasters and banishers, but how many 
of you know an astral combat expert? Physical ad-
epts are also frequently trained for security teams, 
but sometimes they develop into social adepts or 
other, more unusual, paths. These roles don’t have 
the pay or clout of the full mage, but you’d better 
believe that they still get a good rate of pay.
> For the most part, this level of mage brings in around 60K 
a year. Keep that in mind when it comes to bribery.
> Hard Exit
Which brings me to a final consideration. You 
about never hear of them, but those marginally 
Talented that I talked about before? There’s a cat-
egory in that group called the Aware that number 
about one in a thousand, making them as com-
mon as all other Talented combined. These guys 
have trained themselves to perceive the astral. 
That’s it? Yeah, that’s it, but there are a ton of them, 
and the sheer volume means that you can find 
them in all walks of life. Many talismongers are 
probably Aware, for instance, and there are always 
a few in security details and police stations who 
keep an eye out for magical influence or spiritual 
shenanigans. A Mr. Johnson of any heft will have 
one of his people Aware and watching for magical 
touches during the meeting, such as mind con-
trol spells, spirit tails, or social adepts doing their 
thing. Needless to say, this doesn’t go over well. 
You can also trip over them in day-to day-life, from 
bartenders with “a good feeling about people” to 
a data-pusher who reads auras to that one me-
chanic who talks to machines and seems to have a 
knack with your car that nobody else does.
> These guys are working schlubs, pulling around 2K a 
month, with their sight being a little more valuable than 
the ability to speak Aztlaner Spanish, but not much. Those 
with the right mindset go into magical research, serving 
as eyes on experiments and pushing the boundaries of 
magical theory. They can’t cast, but they can observe and 
suggest tweaks to make something new.
> Had Exit
> Some turn to music, adjusting their tune to the emotional 
flow of the crowd. Pisses me off, just how sad they can 
make me.
> Kat-o’-Nine-Tales
TRADITIONAL 
DEMOGRAPHICS
Traditions are somewhat trickier to track than Tal-
ent. With magic, it’s something of a switch, either 
on or off. Traditions are largely split between the 
hermetic and shamanic, but there’s a large swath 
of other, some of which are completely unique 
to themselves. As a rough rule of thumb, forty 
percent of all mages are hermetic, forty percent 
shaman, and twenty percent other, but those 
numbers vary by nation, culture, and so on, by a 
large degree. The Ute had a ratio of eighty-eight 
percent shaman before the nation collapsed, for 
instance, while the UCAS leans sixty-four percent 
hermetic. This lends weight to the Unified Mag-
ic Theory’s core thought that magic is magic and 
that practitioner views define how it’s used, but 
there are always corner cases that fly in the face 
of it, which is why it’s never become the Law of 
Unified Magic. 
> And I’ll go ahead and direct that debate to the dedicated 
discussion area, not here, thanks.
> Glitch
> I’ll skirt that somewhat by noting that the first days of magic 
saw an explosion of shamans in the Native American 
population, but the high numbers were something of an 
illusion. Daniel Coyote’s band attracted spirits, and as we 
mentioned, most magicians are aspected, not full. Those 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
104    TRADITIONS >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 105 =====
early pioneers had few spell formulae, but the conjurers 
were born into the middle of a feast. This was helped by 
the “shamanic adepts” that we’ll talk about later. Between 
conjurers, physical adepts, and apprentices, the Ghost 
Dance movement saw a rate of Talented five times greater 
than you’d have expected. This was an insurmountable 
edge in the early days of the Sixth World.
> Elijah
> The UCAS military has worked on assorted counter-
magical protocols ever since.
> Stone
> Due to raw population figures, the strongest magical 
power in North America is, weirdly, the CAS, followed by 
the UCAS, then the PCC. The great unknown is the Great 
Ghost Dance. Until the UCAS understand it, they simply 
can’t risk open warfare with the NAN, despite having a 
general advantage in magical power in today’s world.
> Icarus
> I’m very curious where you obtained those numbers.
> Winterhawk
> I assure you that they’re accurate.
> Icarus
> I know that, but you shouldn’t. We need to talk.
> Winterhawk
> My private consultation fees remain posted in the hiring 
hall.
> Icarus
> They are right to fear the power of the Great Ghost Dance.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> That’s direct enough to keep me worried.
> Sunshine
THE MAKE-UP OF MAGIC
In order to help with visualization, here’s a small chart about 
commonality of magicians.
FOR EVERY 10,000 PEOPLE:
• There are ten full mages, most commonly a hermetic or 
shaman, or a physical mage.
• There are forty aspected magicians
• There are one hundred “Sparks” who are technically magical.
• There are 9,850 non-magical (or mundane) people.
OF THOSE FORTY ASPECTED MAGICIANS:
• There are eight conjurers.
• There are eight physical adepts.
• There are eight sorcerers.
• There are four apprentices.
• There are four enchanters.
• There are four explorers.
OF THOSE ONE HUNDRED “SPARKS”
• There are twenty who are Aware.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< TRADITIONS    105
===== PDF PAGE IDX 106 =====
> I don’t like this post. Not one bit.
It wasn’t too long ago that rumors started about blood 
magic making an appearance on the streets. More and 
more, you’d see a dagger to a bleeding arm and a bunch 
of barrens hoods turning into literal splatterpunks. Things 
like that make you wonder if we haven’t hit the epilogue 
as a species. But if Cap ever taught me anything, it’s that 
we’ve been through worse, we’ll get through worse, and 
we never say die. Still, blood magic, prolific and street 
level … that’s enough to make anyone want to lock up 
with some deep bottles and a lot of ammo.
It was hard figuring out who to talk to for this. Blood 
magic means Aztlan, right? So Glitch reached out to 
Pyramid Watcher. But Red has experience hunting blood 
mages, and he understands blood in ways most of us 
never will. And Ethernaut had some notes, as did Lyran, 
and then Frosty. Next thing I know, I’m getting a call from 
Netcat, of all people. Says she reached out to the only 
person she knew could tell her anything. 
So here it is: the best info we can get from a bunch of 
professionals who have run afoul of it, fought it, studied 
it, and in a couple cases, embraced it.
> Bull
WORDS FROM THE 
CONTRIBUTORS
NETCAT
> I managed to contact an … old friend. He’s still kinda 
touched, so I didn’t bring him on to talk. Just posting what 
he had to say. And he knows this stuff, in the academic 
sense. 
> Netcat
> Who? Oh, shit … no, not him.
> Slamm-0!
> Honey, he trusts me. We need what he knows, so let’s 
trust him.
> Netcat
> USER: IRE HAS BEEN GIVEN PROBATIONARY ACCESS
> This is a bad idea. 
> Slamm-0!
RED
> 
I’ve dug up a runner who is learning the new stuff, a 
bounty hunter who specializes in blood mages, a friend 
with some insights into the corps involved in them, and 
one friend who prefers I don’t share any details about 
her. I can’t vouch for their ethics, but I can confirm they all 
have experience pertaining to the subject at hand.
> Red
> USERS: FEATHER-DANCER, EB, BLOODHOUND,  
SILK HAVE BEEN GIVEN PROBATIONARY ACCESS
FROSTY
> 
I’ve drawn on an unusual contact. I suggest you trust 
whatever they say and don’t talk to them. Just listen.
> Frosty
> USER: WORDSMYTH HAS BEEN GIVEN  
PROBATIONARY ACCESS
GLITCH
> 
It’s kinda obvious: I called up Pyramid Watcher for some 
details on Aztlan, everyone’s favorite home of blood-
everything. Blood magic, blood sports, blood money …
> USER: PYRAMID WATCHER HAS BEEN GIVEN 
PROBATIONARY ACCESS
FORBIDDEN ARCANA
BLOOD
MAGIC
106    BLOOD MAGIC >>

===== PDF PAGE IDX 107 =====
THE PULSE  
OF MAGIC
POSTED BY: IRE
Let’s start with the basics.
WHAT IT IS
Blood magic is … 
Hotly contested. At present, it is considered 
illegal in most first-world countries and megacor -
porations, with Aztechnology being the notable 
exception. Bounties are attractive, and all known 
blood mage criminals are automatically consid-
ered armed and dangerous. Most organizations 
will pay on delivery, dead or alive.
Dangerous. There is no way to cast blood magic 
without causing harm to someone, and the cast-
er risks psychological or magical addiction to the 
practice.
WHAT IT ISN’T
Blood magic is not …
Human sacrifice. Not always. Until quite re-
cently, the practice was considered exclusively 
the domain of madmen and among the darkest of 
magics. It has never demanded death, but it only 
worked most efficiently through an unwilling vic-
tim’s pain and harm.
Easy power. Its initial appeal is the ability to shift 
drain to others, but the toll it takes on the mind and 
soul of the user is not to be underestimated. The 
addiction turns the means into the ends.
HOW IT WORKS
THEORY
Magic that inherently requires harm is inherently 
scary, even if the person being harmed is the cast-
er. A lot of religions had a hard time accepting the 
existence of magic, and then a harder time excus-
ing it, until religious leaders and authorities came 
out with their own various takes on how magic 
could be responsibly handled within the limits of 
their faith’s morality. Imago Dei, for example, ex-
cused Catholic magic that could be used to heal 
almost out of hand, compared to the loopholes 
and qualifiers required of other kinds of spells. 
> If you think that’s complicated, you should see the 
doctrinal calisthenics Muslims must engage in.
> Goat Foot
There is an underlying psychological reason that 
blood magic is so instinctively offensive: namely, 
blood. As obvious as it may seem, blood has enor-
mous connotations on a visceral level. The sight of 
it invokes an immediate emotional response in all 
but the most inured or alien minds. Blood means 
harm: when enough is spilled, people die. Blood 
also means life: there is no metahuman birth that 
does not involve blood. Blood is family. Blood is 
revenge. Blood is bond and bread and legacy and 
passion. The idea of blood as a sacred medium 
likely evolves from this reaction, seen in everything 
from Christian stigmata and transubstantiation to 
Aztec blood rites to Wiccan binding rituals to the 
Great Ghost Dance itself. Sacrificial foci are even 
called athame, after the ritual blades Wiccans wield.
> Actually, I’ve wondered about that. Wicca is usually a very 
peaceful religion. How the hell did one of the most reviled 
foci come to be named after an innocuous tool from a 
faith that preaches three to one retribution on all wrong-
doing?
> Red
> I’ve been thinking the same thing for years. It’s even worse 
than you think, though: Many traditions and covens of 
Wicca don’t allow for the athame to be used for physical 
<< BLOOD MAGIC    107

===== PDF PAGE IDX 108 =====
cutting. It’s not a tool for material-plane work. You use 
an entirely different knife to cut up roots or trim candle 
wicks. Been that way since at least the 1950s, and possibly 
(even probably) much farther back. You wouldn’t believe 
how many misunderstandings it has engendered over the 
decades. We really need to put it to bed and come up with 
another name for them.
> Lyran
> Blood focus? No … I mean sacrificial focus is too long 
and obvious. It’s gotta sound scary. Aetherpedia says 
“sanguine” means blood, that could be cool, but, oh, it 
also means “being positive in a negative situation, ” so ... 
Oh! Death focus! Oh! Band name! Called it!
> Whippet
> WHIPPET HAS BEEN DISCONNECTED
> Thank you.
> Frosty
> NP
> Bull
> ... Obsidian focus?
> Glasswalker
> You know, this banhammer is a lot lighter when I swing it 
…
> Bull
> Point taken.
> Glasswalker
It is possible that this same psychological import 
lends blood its power, and not the blood itself. This 
theory is popular among proponents of Universal 
Magic Theory, who claim that the passions of the 
mage are far more important than the traditions 
and philosophies they follow or the nature of the 
rituals they perform. A mage who does not have 
any feelings regarding blood would not draw any 
more power from it than they might a cup of caf-
feine-free soymilk. There is some merit to this, but 
only insofar as any magic is possible to cast in an 
emotional vacuum. Magic is willpower, and will-
power often entails emotion. Several reports sub-
mitted by law-enforcement magical-crimes depart-
ments have noted that serial killers who perform 
blood magic are often elevated from a seemingly 
emotionless state into one of ecstasy. 2047’s Az-
roth the God killings in LA make for an excellent 
example.
> That was in the Awakenings upload on the old Shadowland 
server. I remember reading that file … damn, in 2057 . I’m 
old.
> Bull
> I still have a copy of that datafile. Let’s see … shit. Wow. 
His magic worked, and he thought he was becoming a 
god, but he didn’t even know he was Awakened. 
> Lyran
> Data search turns up a reference to it in a thesis paper 
on UMT at Universitas Carolina Pragensis. My agent 
is giving me the cliffnotes version now. Basically says 
that if a human with sufficient conviction can manifest 
power by calling on a made-up god, then it invalidates all 
traditions as … this is really wordy. “Paradigm crutches?” 
“Psychomanasomatic operating systems?” Oh, for fuck’s 
sake, this little shit got an A! I’m gonna trace him down 
and kick his ass.
> Pistons
> That’s weird. Some guy called Kazuo commented on that 
post, said the killer didn’t create his own tradition.
> Lyran
> Wait, Kazuo? Oh, no. No no no no. Lyran, can you send me 
that file?
> DangerSensei
> It’s from ’57…
> Lyran
> NOW, L YRAN!
> DangerSensei
> Okay, okay, geez, sent.
> Lyran
> DANGERSENSEI HAS DISCONNECTED
> What do you think that was all about?
> Chainmaker
It is certainly true that cold, stored blood is not 
particularly effective, nor is dried, dead blood, but 
both have their potential use in rituals. The most 
efficacious blood you could find, however, is from 
a still-living host, the most powerful being the life-
blood drawn in a killing blow. From this, we can 
establish a theory: that the power of blood magic 
draws not on the psychodrama of blood, but an ac-
tual, measurable property of the sacrificial victim’s 
life force. Similar parallels can be drawn especial-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
108    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 109 =====
ly with Type-1 Infected, but also will-o-the-wisps, 
shedim, free spirits, and other Awakened entities 
that feed on what might be considered the “souls” 
of their victims.
> Hardly a theory. It’s been pretty well established that 
sacrificial metamagic techniques just use blood as a 
medium to get at the soul, same as vampires.
> Axis Mundi
> It’s not as cut-and-dried as that. There are documented 
cases of the spirits of people who have been used as 
sacrifices being conjured. Of course, they do seem tainted 
by the experience, twisted by the pain they endured and 
possibly continue to experience. Most conjurings collapse 
as they continue to shift the background mana to match 
their ordeal. 
> Winterhawk
> I’ll be honest, I get really uncomfortable with the 
vampire comparison. There are a number of theories 
about what vampires really feed on. The one I favor 
suggests that we feed on some magical quantity that 
is a sort of bonding element between the body and the 
soul. Considering the way overly augmented victims 
aren’t able to offer as much, it makes sense. Still, I can 
see why the connection is made.
> Red
> It never bothered me much. I mean, pick a black enough 
soul and you’re just saving them toll money on the road 
to Hell.
> EB
> Whatever helps you sleep through the day.
> Sticks
> Not gonna lie. What she said? Kinda hot.
> Clockwork
HISTORY
First, we begin with the old.
Sacrificial techniques have existed through all 
recorded history. The methodology of Aztlan prac-
titioners is, without a doubt, the most infamous, 
harkening back to at least pre-colonial Mesoamer-
ica, when the Aztec empire was at the height of its 
power. While there is no way to verify its efficacy 
in pre-Awakening times, the practice is believed to 
have been carried forward to the Awakening, if only 
by smaller cults and traditionalists, when its power 
became evident again. I can only assume this trans-
lated to temporal and political power, considering 
what was an underground cult practice for centu-
ries has become a major state religion for Aztlan. 
> I can vouch for working blood magic in the Fifth World. I 
truly wish I couldn’t. 
> Red
> Care to expand on that?
> Jimmy No
> On a personal level, I’ll only say I was a secondary 
victim. On an academic one, blood magic could provide 
a temporary background count that allowed potential 
Awakened humans and otherwise dormant vampires 
(and, I presume, other magical creatures) to exercise 
a measure of power greater than the whispers and 
intuitions normally experienced by individuals or 
families who, in a more mana-rich environment, would 
express magical talent.
> Red
> Very good. There were a number of such beings who 
maintained their power that way through the Fifth Age. 
Most succumbed in time, but some potent few were able 
to survive the millennia until the next Age of Magic. The 
more adept of them chose instead to internalize their 
power and simply endure quietly, while the leviathans 
preferred to sleep, half of this world and half of another, 
as is their custom. 
> Wordsmyth
> How would y– RESPONSE BLOCKED
> Lyran
> I can sense someth– RESPONSE BLOCKED
> Arete
> Thanks, Bull.
> Frosty
Modern practice is often derived from a form 
of extreme exercise of one’s tradition; there are no 
known traditions that insist on the practice of sac-
rificial techniques, aside from isolated aberrations 
that might as well be considered novel, if twisted, 
forms of chaos magic. Sacrifice is a primal concept 
that resonates particularly well in the hyper-capi-
talistic mindset of the twenty-first century, in that 
the first and most important element is the over -
riding desire for power at any cost.
> You are discounting those who are raised in a culture that 
treats the practice with reverence and respect. If you grow 
up around twisted behavior, it becomes normal to you.
> Pyramid Watcher
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    109
===== PDF PAGE IDX 110 =====
> Yeah, just look at Slamm-0!.
> Netcat
> I’d say you’ll pay for that, but you married me, and that’s 
punishment enough.
> Slamm-0!
Sacrificial metamagical techniques, up until re-
cently, have been the domain of the wicked, the 
desperate, and the mad. It could not be learned 
“safely” except by tutelage from someone who 
had already been instructed in its use. The only al-
ternative would be to learn it from an astral quest 
to some dark dimension where such knowledge 
resides, or from a spirit, possibly from those same 
metaplanes. Both routes, as far as I know, are more 
than human sanity can bear, and no one has re-
turned with their mind intact for the power they 
have gained. 
> You could debate the sanity of anyone who actually seeks 
this kind of knowledge out.
> Glasswalker
> I have to believe you can come back from that. If only for 
Serrin’s sake.
> Netcat
> There is no healing from a wound to the soul. Only 
learning to live with the scars.
> Man-of-Many-Names
The most recent developments, however, see 
a kind of diversity coming to blood magic. A de-
gree of finesse heretofore unseen. There is some 
speculation regarding its genesis: the current pop-
ular theory suggests that, as the mana level grad-
ually rises, more and more power, as well as the 
detail and shape and subtlety of that power, will 
manifest in the world and practitioners of magic 
in particular. If so, blood magic is catching up to 
other disciplines that have seen remarkable devel-
opment in recent years, such as alchemy.
> If so, such phenomena as Halley’s Comet generating 
mana spikes and revealing new expressions are not 
aberrations or mutations, but previews of the shape of 
things to come.
> Axis Mundi
> Alas, while true, it is not quite accurate in this context. True, 
this age has seen more violent upheavals and exceptions 
than any that has come before it, and the manasphere of 
the Sixth Age is akin to a sleeper too-soon awakened and 
still getting its proper bearings, but the scale of time at 
work is measured in centuries and millennia. By present 
calendars, there are at least two millennia before magic 
once again reaches its apex. Taken at that scale, the world 
is not only too-soon Awakened, but violently startled. 
This is not a product of the evolution of magic, but 
your understanding of it. 
> Wordsmyth
> Oh, so you’re sayi- RESPONSE BLOCKED
> Lyran
> Fine, fine …
> Lyran
THE BENEFITS
Blood magic is powerful. Those who engage in it 
can, at great expense, explore past the boundaries 
experienced by metahumans, leaping forward into 
the realm of effects normally available only to the 
most accomplished of mages, or such immortal be-
ings as dragons. Through its practice, some groups 
have pressed past the known limits of magical de-
velopment, performing acts which have shaped the 
world and all history to come after. 
The most obvious of these moments actually 
harkens back to the Awakening. The Great Ghost 
Dance might well be considered a massive sacri-
ficial ritual. Participants engaged by the thousands 
in such acts of ritual exhaustion and self-destruc-
tion on a national scale that they were able to har-
ness the power of storms and volcanoes, and con-
sequently jump-started the process of Awakening 
and goblinization as a side-effect. 
> Very astute! The Awakening was predicted to occur very 
differently, with a far more gradual, easy transition. Some 
races arrived more violently than was necessary, while 
others have failed to arrive at all, or continue to sleep in 
human form. But with an act of dangerous, advanced 
sorcery far ahead of its time, humanity hurled themselves 
into the next Age with blind abandon. Perhaps not wise, 
and certainly the act of understandably desperate people, 
but still, only time will tell what price must be paid for an 
Age of Magic ushered in with grand blood sacrifice.
> Wordsmyth
THE RISKS
The appeal of blood magic is obvious: vast power 
without consequence. Sacrifice is akin to utilizing 
a focus, except there is no need to invest your -
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
110    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 111 =====
self into binding with it. It is relatively cheap, not 
too technical or difficult once you understand its 
techniques, and can offer extraordinary results 
beyond what you could achieve on your own. Its 
applications in ritual and even real-time melee 
combat are astounding. Given the hostile nature 
of battle, profiting off of one’s enemies is a very 
easy justification to make for some mages. This 
mercenary outlook allows the temptations of 
blood magic a way in. A tremendous advantage 
at someone else’s expense. Some even like to 
think of it as “stealing magic.”
> You’d be amazed how many mundanes try it, thinking it’ll 
give them a way to harness magic. Scary how deep their 
envy runs.
> Axis Mundi
> The Aleph Society has turned it into an art.
> Bloodhound
The ease is, perhaps, why it is so simple to ini-
tially ignore the most insidious peril of blood mag-
ic: how good it feels. Many mages will describe 
the shocking sense of “oneness” or how it feels 
“right” when they use magic, even when drain 
takes its toll. Blood magic is like a drug, a quick 
and easy path without pain to achieve goals. That, 
of itself, would lead to psychological addiction. 
But the magic is powerful, and the taste of another 
metahuman’s life energy is seductive. Perhaps it is 
an as-yet unknown quality of this strain of magic, 
but blood mages almost always abuse this power, 
casting bigger and more dangerous spells, hooked 
on the rush of casting without the consequences 
of drain. Or perhaps the nature of the magic itself 
is too intoxicating for any mage to long endure. 
Regardless, blood magic is habit-forming.
Once the habit sets in, the mind begins to 
change. Again, the chicken-and-egg dilemma 
holds true as academics wonder if the power is in-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    111
===== PDF PAGE IDX 112 =====
herently mutative, or simply having such power is 
likely to lead anyone to these ends, blood magic 
or no. The point is, those who have become ad-
dicted see distinct personality changes. In some 
cases, witnesses and associates have noted major 
differences in taste, judgement, and temperament. 
Practitioners tend to display patterns of antisocial 
behavior and become irritable, easily provoked, 
quick to anger. They are likely to see metahumans 
in the worst possible light, as though looking for 
an excuse to hurt or kill them. This, I believe, is 
a kind of enabling mechanism for the addiction. 
Another common expression of psychological 
damage is a rapidly developing sense of paranoia. 
Given the empowering sensation of blood magic, 
it would stand to reason that as the practitioner’s 
ego begins to grow, he starts to see other meta-
humans as jealous of his power, (understandably) 
fearful of him, or perhaps simply keen to claim one 
of the generous bounties available for his capture. 
It comes as little surprise, then, that megaloma-
nia is another frequent manifestation, as the blood 
mage begins to see himself as above his fellow 
metahumans. People are less sapient creatures 
with free will and inherent value and rights, and 
more resources to be drawn on by those with the 
power and will to do so. 
> I was going to make a joke that the derangements a blood 
mage develops sound like megacorporate talent scout 
wish lists, but …
> Cosmo
> … you realized it wasn’t a joke?
> Sunshine
> Sounds like some of the psychological imbalances 
metahumans often develop after traumatic or extensive 
augmentation. I’ve seen street sams with Superhuman 
Syndrome, augmentation addiction, dissociative disorder, 
and worse. You cope with a subconscious fear of being 
less metahuman by devaluing metahumanity in general, 
resulting in antisocial habits and overconfidence in your 
abilities. 
> Butch
> It’s far from unheard of in normal mages, too. When you 
can shape the world with your will, it’s not that hard to 
develop a god complex. That’s one of the best reasons 
for traditions. Mentor spirits, in particular, provide a kind 
of ceiling, so the mage doesn’t develop delusions of 
apotheosis. 
> Axis Mundi
> Very good. But don’t mistake a step on the path with its 
destination.
> Wordsmyth
> Remember when Man-of-Many-Names was the only 
cryptic one we had to deal with?
> Snopes
> I must be slipping.
> Icarus
And, of course, there is the aforementioned 
bounty. Blood magic is highly illegal, cultural-
ly taboo, and teams of elite hunters make entire 
careers specializing in neutralizing blood mages. 
Outside of Aztlan, a blood mage’s paranoia is well 
warranted, as their very auras are stained with their 
deeds. Even the unAwakened may feel a creeping 
sense of dread in the presence of a blood mage, 
and any mage can quickly identify the dark prac-
tices. Many of those blood hunters are more than 
happy to spare a few thousand nuyen for quality 
intelligence of blood mage sightings, so there is 
always the fear that the wrong person will see the 
mage and sell them out. Blood mages are outcasts 
of their own making, forever on the edges of soci-
ety, or ready to bolt at a moment’s notice. 
> This is why most blood mages who survive for a while 
learn flux metamagic. Of course, their intimacy with 
material links means they’ve got a whole store of tricks to 
throw hunters off the scent. 
> Bloodhound
CONCLUSION
I am unwilling to share what I know of the practi-
cal application of blood magic. It has cost me too 
much and has never brought anything but pain to 
anyone I have ever known. My circumstances are 
irrelevant. My sins will never wash clean, the stain 
of blood something I will never escape. Whatev -
er new paths the practice of blood magic takes, I 
will not be the one walking them. 
> That’s where I come in.
> EB
THE NEW SHIT
POSTED BY: EB
Hello, JackPoint! Looks like I finally managed to 
get Red to introduce me to all of you. Took long 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
112    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 113 =====
enough. All I had to do was learn a new style 
of magic so intensely objectionable that he had 
no choice but to let me explain it myself. Easy 
enough, right?
> Keep it up and it’ll be the last time.
> Red
> You know you can’t get enough of me. 
> EB
SO WHAT IS IT?
For starts, it’s not strapping someone down to the 
table and sticking a knife in their heart. I mean, I 
can infer the method to do that. Sort of like how 
you could plan to throw a rager by multiplying the 
elements that go into throwing a regular party. 
Which is actually a nice segue into what it really is! 
It’s bite-sized blood magic. 
> This girl can’t be for real.
> Glasswalker
> She’s actually dialing it back for us.
> Red
Until now, the folks who worked with sacri-
ficial magic tended to think in very grandiose 
terms. Like, picture a corp brat who only knows 
how to spend nuyen in denominations of a hun-
dred or more. The kid only thinks in terms of big 
money (well, big for someone living in the bar -
rens, anyway). His hookers are either top-shelf 
or by the dozen. His dinners are designer, and 
so are his threads. If he ever went into a Seattle’s 
Choice and got a cup of kaf, he’d give a hundo 
and wouldn’t wait for the change. He would nev -
er even think to look.
So here we’ve got these dudes at the top of 
AZT, stabbing fuckers in the chest and tearing 
out their hearts to the adoring cheers of tens of 
thousands, deflecting big bad dragon spells and 
bringing rain to the crops and ushering polluted 
prosperity on the whole of their wholly owned 
subsidiar—ahem, nation of Mexic—ahem, Aztlan. 
If those guys know anything about microeconom-
ics, I’d be shocked. That’s what this is. Microeco-
nomics of blood. Drops instead of rivers. And if 
anyone can compare blood and money, it’s me.
> Huh?
> Kat-o’-Nine-Tales
> Doing a little digging, our girl here is Infected, and Daddy 
Dearest makes his fortune running legal defense for the 
mob.
> Pistons
> For fuck’s sake, aren’t there enough of you bloodsuckers 
around here?
> Clockwork
> The vampire or the lawyer?
> Cosmo
> I dunno. I kinda dig her vibe.
> Kat-o’-Nine-Tales
In the past, people were painting in very, very 
broad, bloody strokes. Kill a human, get power. 
Slice ’em up, get power. Hell, slice on yourself 
and get power (though honestly I never fully un-
derstood that one. I mean, drain is drain, right?). 
Meanwhile, you’ve got all these normal traditions 
that incorporate elements of sacrifice into their 
rites and rituals. Like, normal, non-Petro Voodoo 
doesn’t consider it evil to hypnotize and snap a 
chicken’s neck when they’re calling on a loa, right? 
Druids will sacrifice a dove or something, use 
its blood to paint their faces, some shit like that. 
I’ve got no love for the New Druidic Movement. 
Norse Ásatru like me might consume blood and 
mead. Or just blood, that works pretty well. I met 
a Wiccan once who used her menstrual blood as 
a sacrament, and I once fought with a Sylvestrine 
whose palms bled when he called on his saints. 
Blood magic was always everyday. We just nev-
er made the connection.
So what happens when you pull out the big, 
mean magic concepts and start looking at blood 
in a positive way? Blood magic is all about power, 
yeah, but is power evil? I say no. People are evil. 
People are corrupted by power. But power, itself, 
is as neutral as the sea and the storm and the acid 
rain. So how do you mitigate the evil of power?
Word on the street says one of the first peo-
ple who figured this out was a blood mage down 
in Tenochtitlan with a kid. Kid gets sick, and she 
draws on her own life-force to push past her own 
limits to heal him. The crazy thing? She didn’t feel 
the same rush she normally did. No heady high, 
no godlike power waiting to be unleashed on the 
foolish mortals. Just a mother who would give her 
life if it meant saving her kid. That’s what parents 
do, right? They make sacrifices. This one just did 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    113
===== PDF PAGE IDX 114 =====
it with a big obsidian knife. And she survived, and 
discovered a new path.
I’d love to say I know more about her particular 
case, but this is one of those “A guy I know has a 
cousin who talked to a guy at the airport she swore 
was telling the truth” kind of scenarios. I’ve heard a 
few others: some Catholic priest reenacts a crucifix-
ion on himself and gives freely of the power he gains, 
never accepting reward and objecting to praise. Or 
the barrens shaman who was sacrificing devil rats to 
his totem when he saw the connection and some-
how figured it out on his own. They all sound pretty 
unlikely to me, but that’s rumors for you. The fact is, 
blood magic is hitting the streets, and I’m gonna tell 
you how to keep it from ruining your life.
SELF-SACRIFICE
Understanding, moderation, intention.
Keep chanting it. They say the road to Hell is 
paved in good intentions, and now it looks like the 
same road leads back out, too. 
> Slippery slope is slippery.
> Turbo Bunny
> Blood makes for a slick path.
> Man-of-Many-Names
The first thing to remember is that too much of 
anything is bad for you, no matter how much you 
like it. Actually, no, things you like are especially 
dangerous, because you like them. They are sub-
tle. You’ll just gorge yourself until you burst or burn 
out. Doesn’t matter if it’s cigs or BTLs or burritos 
or whatever. You can die from drinking too much 
water, did you know that? I can’t, but you certainly 
can. And you’re mostly made of water! 
That’s what’s so dangerous about addictive 
things. The whole point, really. It changes you so 
you want more of it. Sure, willpower can carry you 
along, but you do enough and willpower can actu-
ally get turned toward getting more. A clever mind 
works out new justifications. Really charming peo-
ple create an audience that approves of what they 
are doing. Addiction makes you complicit in your 
own self-destruction.
> Damn.
> Turbo Bunny
But that’s the thing: The worst addictions take 
place in the mind. And yeah, any mage worth their 
salt is going to have a pretty strong will. But, the 
bigger you are, the harder you fall. That’s what 
makes blood mages who give in so damn dan-
gerous. And when you use blood magic, it’s very 
tempting to give in, because it feels really, really 
good. You don’t have to hold back anymore. You 
feel free. You feel powerful and free and strong, 
and you don’t want to stop feeling that way ever.
> So you’re saying you aren’t addicted to it?
> Arete
> Well, in my case, one addiction is so good I didn’t go in for 
another. I have, how shall I put it, a drinking problem. 
> EB
> Ha ha.
> Red
So, let’s treat blood magic as a tool and not as a 
toy. A very dangerous tool, like a lathe or a hydrau-
lic press or a monofilament whip. Yeah, it’s cool, 
but you shouldn’t be playing with it, or you’ll slice 
something off. You check yourself, establish rou-
tines, meditations, centerings. You sort of disasso-
ciate yourself from the sensations and get caught 
up in the ritual, instead. Sorta like when a guy starts 
doing math problems in bed. It keeps you from giv-
ing in, keeps you focused on the task at hand. 
Then comes moderation. A friend of mine who 
drinks once told me, “I’m not afraid I’ll have a beer, 
I’m afraid I’ll have twenty.” That’s addiction. A guy 
I know has a glass of red wine every night with his 
pasta. Says it’s for his heart (which I swear is cyber, 
anyway, but I digress). This guy isn’t going to have 
a panic if he doesn’t have his glass of wine. Anoth-
er example: I knew a runner who had some nasty 
strains after a run. I goofed the healing spell and he 
had to patch up the old-fashioned way. He had to 
take some opioids to deal with the pain and relax 
his back so it would heal. He really enjoyed those 
pills, but when the bottle ran out, he didn’t go get 
more, just rested and mended. I asked if he wanted 
more, and he said, “Yeah. But they’re for my back, 
not for me. My back doesn’t need ’em, anymore, 
so I’m not taking more.” Yeah, it’d be easy to get 
those pills on the street, and pretty cheap, too, but 
he knows they are a tool, not a vacation. 
Rick is looking at me like I’m crazy, because he 
knows I love my vices. I mean really, love ’em. But 
when it comes to blood magic, it’s too dangerous to 
be a vice worth pursuing. I’ve seen the people who 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
114    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 115 =====
fell into it and let it consume them. They sacrifice 
themselves to feed the need. Nothing’s worth that.
So that brings me to the most important part, and 
the part that makes this weird little mystery work: 
intention. You have to know exactly what you are 
using it for and, I shit you not, it has to be as benev-
olent as possible. See, that’s the one thing about the 
myths that you hear the most. It’s sacrifice, but it’s 
not greedy. It can’t be done for you, and it can’t be 
done in rage. Blood magic is all about getting more, 
but if the sacrifices are made for someone else, the 
feeling is totally different. Instead of your whole soul 
filling up with stolen energy, you sort of feel it pass 
by you. Like a subway train going past you instead of 
riding on the roof. And you have to really care, too. 
You have to want to save someone’s life, without 
calculating what they owe you. You have to want to 
give of yourself so badly that you would bleed, you 
would hurt, you would die to save them. 
I mean, you can bleed some devil rats, too, but 
that’s not going to be all that powerful. That’s almost 
more utilitarian, just getting some blood to make 
certain spells and rituals work at all. And it’s not 
powerful enough to have any real kick to the magic, 
anyway. So unless you’re summoning a blood spirit 
(which is about the dumbest thing you can do, sug-
ar), you probably aren’t going to be carrying around 
a bandolier of squirming rats for gutting.
GREED PAYS,  
BUT CAUTION STAYS
So let’s talk about the big kick of bad blood mag-
ic: human sacrifice. I know you’re thinking about 
some damsel tied to the altar in a gothic setting, 
and oddly enough, you’re not wrong, but human 
sacrifice is possible in lots of other settings. Maybe 
it’s a blade through the heart in the heat of battle, 
or slashing someone’s throat when you sneak up 
behind them. Sacrifice happens in a moment, with 
spilled blood and wicked words. It’s what makes 
blood mages and adepts so damn tough. Every 
time they make you bleed, they get a little stronger. 
It’s also why so many of them get so good with their 
blades. The damage has to be done with a close, 
physical connection. Your auras have to touch, so 
they can bleed your power out of you. 
> Again, sounds a lot like Infected feeding.
> Kia
> Oh, it totally is. Don’t listen to Rick.
> EB
But here’s that big difference: An unwilling 
victim, for whatever reason, generates more 
power. I honestly don’t know why this is. I have a 
theory that it’s all about the resonance of the en-
ergy taken. Fear, pain, even hate are passionate, 
vibrant emotions of the moment. A lot like when 
I’m feeding—I can’t do a deep feed unless they 
are feeling a strong stirring of passion, whether 
it’s lust or fear or whatever. You get an unwilling 
subject, and you get a lot more energy than if 
you were using a willing one. That’s one of the 
reasons human sacrifice isn’t performed on anes-
thetized or unconscious subjects. They wouldn’t 
feel anything, and that’s worth the same for an 
old-school blood mage as a willing participant, or 
even themselves, because they know it’s coming, 
they believe in it, and that just doesn’t have the 
same zingy pop that fear and shock inspire. In 
short, the mean, cruel, heartless blood magic is a 
big, easy boom, but it’s really addictive.
> Links up pretty well with what Ire was saying about how 
people perceive blood.
> Dr. Spin
So, if you want a sacrifice that works effectively, 
but doesn’t tempt you into cackling crazy psycho 
mode, what’s the secret? Easy. Be selfless as hell.
> You’ve got to be kidding me.
> Clockwork
> Is it really so offensive to you to find out that ethics might 
actually have tactical merit?
> Pistons
> Touchy-feely blood magic. I think I’m going to be sick.
> Clockwork
> Feel free to log off. I’m all the more interested now that 
you’re tuning out.
> Pistons
Aztlan has been bandying their heart-ripping 
blood rituals for so long that the popular picture 
of sacrificial magic involves a victim. You can 
watch it live on their trid channels, priests in big 
headdresses slowly cutting into some death-row 
convict, screaming through a gag while a crowd 
cheers and chants prayers and corporate anthems. 
But sacrifice doesn’t have to be on someone else, 
and it doesn’t have to be motivated by greed. It 
can be selfless, even downright heroic. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    115
===== PDF PAGE IDX 116 =====
> If you’ve ever seen a barrens bum give a shivering child 
their coat in winter, or their last pouch of soy paste to a 
starving friend, you know exactly what she’s talking about.
> Red
> I’m only here because someone was willing to take a 
bullet for me. They survived, but it was close. I wouldn’t 
have made it.
> Picador
When you slice on yourself for power, you 
pay the price. When you are willing to bleed for 
a friend, without any thought to your own profit, 
without any notion of calling on them later? That’s 
noble. That’s selfless. That’s potent stuff. Loyalty. 
Friendship. Love. Actual, real self-sacrifice calls on 
something just as primal in the blood as fear and 
pain. And just as powerful.
> Well, that rules most runners out.
> Hard Exit
> Most people in general.
> Dr. Spin
> Hey, I’ve seen some real moments of heroism in the 
shadows. Don’t be so cynical.
> Sunshine
> Seriously? No, really, seriously?
> Clockwork
> You have no idea what it is like to love someone, do you? 
To look at a woman and know you would die for her? To 
hold your child in your arms and realize that he’s your life, 
now? Fuck … I actually feel sorry for you.
> Slamm-0!
> God … honey …
> Netcat
> Ugh. This … I’m out of here.
> Clockwork
> CLOCKWORK HAS LOGGED OFF
BLOOD, SWEAT, AND MURDER
So, now you’re kinda turned off, right? I mean, 
when corpsec is bearing down and you need to 
start dropping them, what good is all this sacri-
fice stuff if it’s just going to weaken you? 
A fine old vampire once told me, “There’s noth-
ing so human as self-defense.” Ain’t it the truth? 
It’s pretty primal, the instinct to fight in our de-
fense. When your back is to the wall, when you’re 
cornered, that’s when we fight the fiercest. Rats 
can tear through cats if they feel like there is no 
way other than fighting. So you might think the in-
stinct to kill is pretty human, under those circum-
stances, right?
Sure. You’re right. It is. It’s also an addictive sen-
sation. The ability to deal death is power. Bullies, 
thrill-kill go-gangers, serial murderers, corpers, 
they all get off on it. There’s a rush. You can end 
problems with a bullet or a blade, and they stay 
gone and dead. You inspire fear, and in the dark, 
it feels a lot like respect. Everyone likes respect. 
Everyone likes safety. Everyone likes power. 
I just described how a gun affects you. Add in 
blood magic, ripping life force out of your foe to 
power your own prowess. Try to imagine the bat-
tle-fever on you, jazzed on adrenaline and instinct, 
and now you’re becoming more powerful at your 
enemy’s expense. That survival instinct? It gets a 
predator’s edge. The mix in your head says, “If I 
kill more, I’ll be more powerful, and I’ll be safe.” 
And it’s probably right. It’s so right that it brands 
itself right across your heart. You’ll never forget 
how good it feels to kill and be safe. Some part of 
you will always be itching for that sense of con-
trol over your own destiny. Your reflex changes 
from “Assess” to “Kill,” and you’re not fighting it, 
because your subconscious is already justifying it. 
You dream of the kill. You live for the kill. The kill 
makes you feel alive.
> So, you’re saying that blood magic makes you a serial 
killer?
> Thorn
> I’ve seen more than one runner go down this path. You can 
always tell a new kid when they get off on body counts. 
> Hard Exit
> I seem to recall you’ve been willing to put an enemy down 
without too much hesitation.
> Thorn
> I don’t kill for sport or pleasure. I don’t kill at all, if I can 
find another solution. But if it comes down to me or some 
guy who wants to put me in the ground, brother, they are 
going down.
> Hard Exit
> It doesn’t haunt you?
> Goat Foot
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
116    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 117 =====
> Of course it does. I hope it always does. When you stop 
feeling your conscience altogether, you know you’ve gone 
too far.
> Hard Exit
> Seriously, what’s this “conscience” everyone keeps 
bringing up?
> Kane
> Don’t let him fool you—Kane and his sense of morality, 
warped as it is, are at least on estranged-but-speaking 
terms.
> /dev/grrl
> It sends me a birthday card every other year.
> Kane
Fact is, though, blood magic is a beast in com-
bat. As long as you don’t mind getting close and 
personal, every wound, every kill gives you a huge 
boost to blast the next guy. You can daisy-chain 
along from one mook to the next, lickety-split. 
> I’ve seen what Aztechnology Bloodpanthers are capable 
of when they are unleashed in this way. Every time they 
score a kill, they channel the power into an augment 
spell, becoming faster, then more armored, then more 
precise. By the end, they’re flying through the enemy like 
a monoblade through overripe melons.
> Pyramid Watcher
> Wait, what the hell is a Bloodpanther?
> 2XL
> Aztechnology Special Forces. They’re all vampires, 
devoted to the corporation and followers of the Path of 
the Sun. You never want to meet them.
> Picador
> Fuck.
> Hard Exit
So, how do you use it without becoming a junk-
ie for your own juice? 
Iron fucking willpower.
Blood magic is playing with fire. It’s like the street 
sam who jacks over-hyped skillwires to get the 
edge. Yeah, she’s kicking lots of ass, but you know 
she’s on her way to getting addicted. How long be-
fore she’s plugging in all the time? How long before 
those instincts she’s got grafted in her skull go off 
at the wrong time? Her girlfriend mouths off at the 
wrong time and out come the razors. By the time 
she realizes what’s happening, there’s blood ev -
erywhere, and the screaming has stopped. You can 
bet plenty of blood mages have fallen off that edge. 
And you’re so hooked, you can’t stop. You literal-
ly cannot stop. You will kill, and kill, and kill again, 
weeping or laughing the whole way. And nothing 
will stop you except a bullet to the head. 
> And with the bounty? Plenty of people willing to pull the 
trigger. 
> Johnny No
> Shit, knowing they are suffering or psycho just makes it 
easier.
> Sticks
> As if you ever needed any incentive. Or excuse.
> Red
But then, there are some people who are just 
hard to hook. You know the guys. The ones who 
can drink six pots of hurlg a night and then go a 
year without a drop, no problem. The ones who 
jack BTLs and, aside from fried synapses, never 
feel the itch. Others have the opposite—addictive 
personalities are screwed if they try this stuff. Any 
good head shrinker can figure out if you fit the 
profile. Then again, if you’re going to start doing 
blood magic, you should probably get your head 
examined, anyway.
> Don’t you use blood magic, though?
> Glasswalker
> Sure, but I’m not claiming a sound psyche. I dunno how 
any of you do.
> EB
Still, even the mightiest teetotaler can end up a 
lush. It happens. It’s not just a rush of pleasure and 
power; there’s sexy black magic running through 
your veins. It’s like focus addiction. But magic 
obeys emotions and patterns. That’s where all that 
selflessness comes in. Yes, I am repeating myself, 
because this is the crux of the whole shebang: 
blood magic done on yourself or a willing donor, 
with a heart full of sacrifice of the self and love of 
the other, doesn’t carry the rush. You still get the 
stain of blood on you, but it doesn’t feel as sinister. 
It’s hard to explain. But the only blood magic that 
isn’t going to risk getting its hooks in your head 
and your heart is the kind that gives freely and 
never expects anything back. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    117
===== PDF PAGE IDX 118 =====
> I bet religious sects love that. The blood of a martyr has 
healing properties?
> Goat Foot
> I’ll bet cults love it, too. Bloodhound mentioned the Aleph 
Society.
> Johnny No
> So, you get the stains on your soul, marking you for a 
bounty, and it would only work on a very few people you 
care enough about to bleed for unconditionally? How 
many runners are actually going to find a use for this?
> Lyran
> Hey, now, there’s lots of kinds of “love, ” you know. 
It’s not like this only works on family you actually like 
and the poor slot you are banging who you actually 
have feelings for. Sometimes you make a real friend, 
someone who you want to keep around. The kind 
of chummer who is a sentimental investment, not a 
nuyen one. 
> EB
> In other words, the kind of term you’d take a bullet for. 
Rare, but it happens. And when it does, I’ll bet a mage will 
be glad they’ve got the power. 
> Arete
> It’d have to be some kind of friend if you’d learn this stuff 
just to keep them safe. 
> Lyran
PAINTING IN SCARLET
Of course, there is one more path, much less pas-
sionate, that I haven’t mentioned yet: oaths. I bet 
at least some of you remember Thunder Tyee, all 
those “blood brother” moments when he would 
slash his palm, a friend would do the same, and 
they clasped hands? 
Yeah, it’s like that. Except it’s more than bro 
hugs and symbolism. It’s blood and brotherhood, 
risk and reward.
The ritual is easy enough. You find someone 
you trust, and you both open veins and swap 
blood. You speak the words of oath and loyalty 
and all that jazz, and you create a connection be-
tween the two of you. A blood bond.
> Isn’t there a way to do it that’s less stabby and more 
hygienic?
> Beaker
> I guess you could do it with an IV, but then you’ve got 
blood typing to worry about. Just get some prets, take a 
salt tablet, and spray some antiseptic on it.
> Butch
> What’s the salt for?
> Sounder
> Oh, for fuck’s sake …
> Butch
So, bad news first. The bond astrally links you 
to the blood mage. You can now be used to track 
them down with the usual ritual tricks, meaning 
you are now a means for bounty hunters to get 
their big payday. And you better believe there’ll 
be some money for you, too. The bond leaves a 
smaller stain on you, harder to detect but easy to 
see for someone who is looking for it specifically. 
The good news? The bond astrally links you to 
the blood mage. Yes, I said it again, because that’s 
one hell of an asset. You can find each other over 
any distance as though you had a link anywhere. 
You’ll always have a feeling for where one another 
are if you get separated, assuming they don’t enter 
an area too heavily warded.
If they trust you, and you know the right metam-
agics, you can even cut on yourself and have them 
take the damage, juicing up the spell for you like 
a sacrifice without having to die. And you get the 
full power as though it was taken with fear and 
pain. Just make sure they know why their skin is 
splitting and the blood is going up in red flame. 
> You can bet some magic circles will start using this for 
more powerful ritual casting.
> Arete
> I hear rumors of new uses for the oath developing, new 
kinds of runes and pledges that work like a geas. I don’t 
know any of these, myself, but it’s like signing a contract 
with blood or swearing a sacred vow. You get some benefit 
from the oath when you are acting in accordance with the 
promise you made. You hear other stuff, too, like breaking 
the oath, or failing to act within the allotted time frame, 
and you suffer for it. Or reinforcing rituals that buffer you 
from the addictive element. Or not needing line of sight 
to cast on people you are bonded with. The rumors keep 
mentioning “pattern magic, ” but I’ll be damned if I know 
what the hell that means.
> Jimmy No
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
118    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 119 =====
> Interesting. You should listen to those rumors. There may 
be something well worth your time at the end, if you 
survive.
> Feather-Dancer
> The price for those answers may be more than you’re 
willing to pay.
> Wordsmyth
RIDING THE TIDE
So that’s blood magic. It’s powerful and wick -
ed and damn useful. But—and you know this 
refrain—everything has a price. Blood magic is 
running the bleeding edge, literally, and it gives 
you the advantage. Just know what you’re getting 
into, because when it comes to paying up when 
the debt comes due, nothing, nothing is more 
dangerous—or precious—than blood.
CRIMSON CRYSTALS
POSTED BY: BLOODHOUND
> I’ve got Bloodhound here as a little bit of a courtesy. 
He does work as a bounty hunter specializing in blood 
mages, and I thought it would be useful to hear what he 
has to say about fighting them, but he had something a 
little juicier to share. 
> Red
> I take being called blunt, cold, and methodical as a 
compliment, so I am just going to lay out what I have 
discovered. It’s big and I don’t like any of it one bit. Y’all 
make of it what you will.
> Bloodhound
There are all manner of injuries and maladies 
that can happen to a person. The wonders of mod-
ern medtech make it possible to replace what is 
lost, including cyberlimbs, biotech organs, or even 
cloned replacement parts. Awakened individuals 
in need of such care have tough choices to make 
though. Cyberware and bioware replacements are 
easy to find but require losing a bit of that magical 
power they have been fighting for years to mas-
ter. Cloned parts are possible but are beyond the 
reach of most street docs. In most cases, you have 
to be willing to trust a corp clinic with your genet-
ic samples and cough up a lot of nuyen to make 
yourself whole again without taking a hit to your 
magic. Considering quite a few corps have what 
you might call “aggressive hiring practices” when 
it comes to talented magicians, many are loath to 
take the risk.
Some Awakened individuals who have suffered 
great injuries such as lost limbs or permanently 
damaged organs are on rare occasion approached 
by unidentified individuals. These individuals offer 
them another option. They offer the Awakened 
person the answer to all their prayers—magically 
active crystals which will bond to them and grow 
faceted, crystalline replacements to the lost limb or 
organ without diminishing their magical abilities. 
On rare occasions these crystals can be found on 
the magical black market. All attempts to trace the 
source of these crystals have met at a dead end. 
Interrogation of individuals who have acquired 
these crystals reveal they can never remember de-
tails surrounding the source. Subjects show signs 
of powerful magical memory manipulation.  It is 
currently unknown where these crystals come 
from or how they are made. It has been speculated 
that they are created by a newly developed branch 
of blood magic, or they are machinations of the 
Black Lodge, or a rediscovered technique from a 
lost age, or they are gifts bestowed by spirits for 
an unknown reason. 
Prior to bonding, the crystals are transparent. 
Upon bonding, the crystals turn blood red and be-
come opaque. During bonding, the blood crystal 
grows and takes the shape of any missing or se-
verely damaged limb or organ. Existing damaged 
tissue appears to be absorbed and supplanted by 
the crystal, replacing the whole limb or organ in a 
matter of minutes. In the case of replaced limbs, 
the musculature appears hard and faceted while 
retaining the warmth, mobility, and tactile sensi-
tivity of natural flesh and blood. If the individu-
al the crystal is bonded to dies, the crystal turns 
black, becomes extremely brittle, and loses all of 
its magical properties. Once a crystal has bonded 
to an individual it cannot be removed and bonded 
to someone else. 
The few known attempts that have been made 
to use these blood crystals on non-Awakened 
individuals have proven disastrous. The crystals 
grow over a period of several days, replacing more 
and more tissue until the individual becomes an 
inert crystal statue. This has led to speculation that 
the blood crystal feeds off of the magical energy 
of an Awakened individual, and when bonded to a 
mundane individual feeds off their life essence in-
stead. This theory is strengthened by that fact that 
blood crystals will not bond to any individual with 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    119
===== PDF PAGE IDX 120 =====
an active HMHVV infection, presumably because 
the virus interrupts the bonding process.
> Y’know, for just one moment, I got kinda excited at the 
thought of getting magic like this. 
> Sounder
> I’m not surprised it won’t bond with infected. HMHVV is a 
greedy sonofabitch. 
> Doc Fangs
> It’s also possible that they represent incompatible magical 
elements.
> Lyran
> Elements?
> Elijah
> It’s about half-theoretical, but certain types of magic simply 
aren’t compatible with one another. You see the most 
evidence of this in conflicting background aspecting, but 
plenty of manatech labs are trying to unlock the specific 
components that obstruct each other to find ways around 
that. Not unlike dissecting the DNA of a living organism to 
find which components trigger which expressions. 
> The Smiling Bandit
> And here I thought you meant spells that don’t mix. I saw 
some joker wizganger claim he had designed a spell that 
shot fire and ice at the same time. When I told him to put 
up or shut up, he swaggered over and shouted something 
like, “Icy Hot!” like he’s in an anime, and he gets covered 
in boiling water.
> Riot
> Let’s stay on topic, folks. 
> Glitch
> Absolutely. But, Riot? Can you get me that boiling water 
spell, please?
> Ethernaut
> I’ve heard about some wiz-gangs turning blood magic 
into a kind of rite of passage. The stain on the soul 
commits you to the gang so you can’t just up and leave 
their protection, and it proves you’re a badass. Of course, 
most of these jokers are prime material for blood hunters. 
At their low level, it’s a pretty sweet payday and a decent 
way to cut your teeth.
> Hard Exit
> Yeah. And weed out the wannabes.
> Sticks
There are benefits and downsides to bonding a 
blood crystal. During bonding, the crystal reduces 
an individual’s essence much in the same way cy-
berware would. The crystal, though, seems to re-
place this essence with its own energy, providing a 
sort of augmented essence. This prevents any re-
duction in an Awakened subject’s magic and does 
not impair magical abilities in any way. However, if 
the blood crystal is removed, the augmented es-
sence supplied by the crystal is removed as well, 
and the individual suffers the effects of essence 
loss as normal. During bonding, the blood crystal 
will grow and take the shape of any missing or se-
verely damaged limb or organ.   
Additional abilities are often attributed to blood 
crystals, although they seem to be highly depen-
dent on the individual and the body part replaced. 
Little is known about the long-term effects of the 
use of a blood crystal, as this is a relatively new 
phenomenon. Very few live subjects have been 
studied, and the results of studies that were per -
formed are secrets closely guarded by the parties 
involved. I have acquired what information I can 
on the subject, but the picture is frustratingly in-
complete at this point. Several corporations and 
magical groups have outstanding bounties for 
anyone bonded to a blood crystal, most notably 
the blood mages of Aztlan. That there is some-
thing apparently related to blood magic that Az-
tlan allegedly doesn’t know about troubles me 
greatly. Because of these bounties, most crystal 
bearers have gone into hiding. We know the most 
about those with crystal limbs, as they are harder 
to keep concealed. Several have exhibited limited 
ability to shape their limbs, growing claws or shap-
ing their entire forearm into a blade at will. We 
don’t know too much about internal crystal aug-
ments, as there are no outward signs of their bond. 
There are rumors of a man who had severe lung 
damage from exposure to some sort of toxic gas 
which was cured by implantation of blood crys-
tal that then allowed him to breathe underwater. 
Another rumor hints at a woman who was dying 
of cirrhosis of the liver, but when the organ was 
replaced with a blood crystal, she received great 
endurance and resistance to toxic substances. 
> That, and she’ll never enjoy a drink again.
> Beaker
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
120    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 121 =====
> About the same for a bioware toxin filter. Saves your life, 
so I wouldn’t complain.
> Butch
> There are degrees of survival, doc. And survival ain’t 
always livin’.
> XXL
> Damn, man. That was like a street-level version of Man-of-
Many-Names.
> Whippet
> ... thank you?
> XXL
> Where is our resident Man-of-Many-Cryptic-Statements, 
anyway? This sounds like his kind of thing to pretend he 
knows everything about.
> Slamm-0!
> Listening.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> That is the scariest thing I’ve ever heard him say.
> Slamm-0!
> Anybody met anyone with one of these?
> Hard Exit
> Just once. Awfully rare. The guy … I don’t know. It was 
like he had a real stick up his ass. Which was weird, 
considering I looked him up because the word on the 
street was that he was a guy who knew how to have a 
good time and paint the town.
> Traveler Jones
RIVERS OF POWER
> 
So, where is blood magic happening? Who has the lore 
and is putting it to use? We called on specialists to post 
what they know, but this one is open forum. Throw in 
what you know, and try to stay on topic.
> Glitch
AZTLAN (AZTECHNOLOGY)
> Aztechnology is the number-one producer of consumer 
goods in the world. The top corp in magical research. It 
effectively owns a whole nation. It’s the biggest corp in 
North America, and might just be biggest in the world, 
depending on who you ask. Statistically, you’ve likely 
eaten something made by one of AZT’s subsidiaries 
today. But the first thing people like us think of when 
they see the logo and the pyramids is blood. While 
consumers love them and find them cuddly, we’ve 
heard the tales of them slicing the still-beating hearts 
out of convicts. They aren’t terribly open about it, but 
we know it’s part of their corporate culture. From the 
bloodsport fighting pits to the tlachtli ball courts to 
metamagical R&D to special forces, Aztechnology has 
no qualms about using sacrifice to power the prosperity 
of country or corporate interests (which are, of course, 
the same thing). 
The Path of the Sun holds sacrifice in high 
regard, and as the state religion of Aztlan, shrines to 
Tezcatlipoca show up in plenty of homes, possibly with 
some blood stains, depending on the level of devotion 
of the owner. Public executions are on the trid and 
cheered by thousands, and while the blood magic part 
of the ritual is not discussed, those in the know can see 
what is happening. Strike teams in Bogota were said to 
have worn blood like warpaint, POWs sacrificed, and if 
you can believe it, worse than that.
It’s only rumor, but seeing as that’s the stock and 
trade of the shadows, they say there is an elite cabal 
at the top of the priesthood—or possibly it’s just an 
individual, depending on who you ask—called the 
Smoking Mirror. This cult is the stuff of conspiracy-
theory nightmares: They’ve got members on the board 
of directors, they worship a living god, and they use 
their power to win wars at the cost of souls. Some 
people even say the Blue-227 weapon was a result 
of their magic. The one thing everyone agrees on is 
that they must be old-school blood magic. With the 
Big A’s long history of covering up nefarious deeds, 
it’s impossible to discount anything, no matter how 
outlandish the accusation.
> Pyramid Watcher
NOTES ON BLOOD CRYSTALS
What may at first seem a blessing can turn into a curse. 
A number of disturbing side effects appear to plague those 
bearing blood crystals. They reportedly may experience 
dramatic changes in behavior, becoming more strict in their 
ethical principles, feeling compelled to perform certain actions, 
or possibly hearing voices giving them orders. The ethical 
realignment is most common in those with internal organs 
replaced, compulsions are most common in those with limbs 
replaced, and hearing voices is most common in those with a 
spine replacement, though any can be experienced at times no 
matter what is replaced. The more supplemental abilities that 
are learned and the more Essence that is lost to blood crystal 
implantation, the stronger the effects. Greater effects are 
possible, though blood crystals are a new phenomenon, so the 
full range of effects they might display has not yet been seen.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    121
===== PDF PAGE IDX 122 =====
> It’s not unusual to see a normalized attitude about sacrifice 
in everyday life in Aztlan. Animals are pretty normal at 
temples, for example. People just don’t even think about 
it. Makes me think they’re jaded. One trip to a pit fight is 
all the proof you’ll ever need.
> Traveler Jones
> The reports of blood magic in Bogota are true. Many of 
the soldiers going up against Aztlan troops were advised 
not to be taken alive. Awakened Amazonian troops were 
terrified of their souls being used to fuel the enemy war 
effort. 
> Picador
> Some gods are real. Others are nothing more than smoke 
and mirrors.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> Please tell me that wasn’t a pun …
> Snopes
> Godhood is a matter of perspective. To the ant, the 
descending boot is a god.
> Feather-Dancer
> Better not be the ant, then, huh?
> Hard Exit
ORDO MAXIMUS
> Ordo. Oh, Ordo, you beautiful monsters, I paid for my 
vacation house in Hawai’i with nothing but bounty money 
from taking out your initiates. When it comes to European 
blood magic, I say look no further than these bastards. 
Rumors abound of their inner circle being composed of 
nosferatu and other intelligent infected, or cybermancy, 
or demon worship, but I can definitely confirm that a 
whole passel of them are down-and-dirty old-school 
blood mages. While I have yet to run across any vampires, 
and certainly no cyberzombies, a few of their goons have 
turned out to be high on Renfield, and plenty more besides 
made lots of threats about my soul being torn out to feed 
their masters’ unholy appetites. That’s me paraphrasing, 
by the way; they really love their purple prose. 
Aside from those rumors, the facts about the Ordo 
Maximus are that they are a magic club for old money 
blue bloods. They aren’t all Awakened, but anyone who 
wants to do more with their membership than get private 
invitations to the secret rooms (in elite clubs to smoke 
cigars wrapped with print money, one assumes) has to 
have the gift. That’s when you become an initiate, and the 
real fun begins. Everything I can tell says they count as 
a big magic group, and while their mundane members 
can help with grand rituals and serious power brokering, 
the initiates are playing big leagues with the promise of 
forbidden lore. I’m no mage myself, but I employ them 
regularly. I had one of them do a mind probe on a captured 
initiate, and there were visions of pale old men holding 
books that practically smelled of power. Really ancient 
stuff. Bad stuff. (And then some kind of failsafe kicked in, 
and my mage got brain-scrambled. She knew the risks, 
but she gets all her food intravenously now.) The Ordo 
likes to say they maintain and protect very old collections 
of the finest magical texts in the world for their own 
protection, and they command enough influence to keep 
megacorps from just buying them out. Evidently some of 
that ancient lore includes slitting wrists for power.
The problem with hunting Ordo bloods is that you run 
into money. Yeah. Just plain old money, and everything it 
can buy. Rumor has it they actually buy people through 
slave-trafficking markets, which means they can snatch up 
all kinds of SINless for a power boost. They dash into luxury 
hotels with lots of cameras and security and witnesses 
and grin at you, knowing you’re the outsider. But if you 
can corner one outside of their gilded cages, they fight 
like hellions. I guess they feel like they have more to lose 
than other people. They’ll use every dirty trick in the book, 
and they have ancient tomes full of instructions for dirty 
tricks that the rest of the world has forgotten. They feel 
little restraint, because they think the world belongs to 
them, and they have the money to buy lawyers, judges—
hell, they can buy the law. They do seem to have a fetish 
for control over others, so expect blood-puppet effects. 
They like the pain and the screams of those who would 
dare to defy them. Makes it a lot more satisfying when 
they piss their designer pants after a taser dart hits them. 
Then you just have to turn them in and hope their legion 
of lawyers aren’t at the Draco Foundation before you are.
> Bloodhound
NAN
> It’s not a secret, but most people don’t think about the first 
major (and arguably most powerful) magical act of the 
Sixth World being one of mass sacrifice. The Great Ghost 
Dance was an ecstatic, selfless ritual, where participants 
often whipped themselves into a frenzy until they died, 
their essence joining what might constitute the largest 
magical ritual in known history. Exact numbers are hard 
to track down, but thousands likely gave their lives to the 
ritual, giving the NAN the power to fight off the USA, 
Canada, and any other comers with the raw power of 
hurricanes and volcanoes, as well as jump-starting the 
Awakening. 
Even today, there are those alive who can recall the 
terror of those times. Whether you believe their cause 
was righteous or not, the show of power the nascent NAN 
displayed has never been repeated. Still, the NAN retain 
a reputation for those who would cross them: They can, 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
122    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 123 =====
and will, lay down their lives to harness the power of the 
living world to take and defend what is theirs. Whether 
the realization that it is a form of blood magic makes that 
threat any scarier is a moot point. 
> Lyran
> The world was not meant to Awaken quite so suddenly. As 
was observed earlier, blood magic has a particular utility 
in that it can generate mana spikes in locations. The Great 
Ghost Dance represents the same principle on a world-
shifting level. Such trauma was akin to a shot of stims into 
a sleeping person. They awaken, disoriented, conscious 
but raw and confused. So it is with this Awakening. It may 
be some time, if ever, before the world has its chance to 
regain its clarity and perspective. Already much of what 
was seems irretrievably lost.
> Wordsmyth
> You’ve got to wonder if the manasphere has somehow 
been permanently colored by that. Like, if the whole 
Awakened world, being jump-started by blood magic, 
somehow aspected the world to be more conducive to 
blood magic. Or even just gave us all an unconscious 
inclination toward violence and pain.
> Ethernaut
> Wait, you’re suggesting that if the Great Ghost Dance 
hadn’t happened, not only would magic and other 
Awakened stuff have taken longer to show up, but we’d 
all be less violent, and the world would be a nicer place? 
C’mon.
> Jimmy No
> All places, all things in this world, bear the echo of that 
which touches them. The Dance was a scream to the 
heavens. Its echo rings still.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> In a world filled with dragons and magic and artificial 
intelligence, the concept of what is strange seems to 
lose meaning. Or perhaps that is simply a matter of 
perspective. Most, if not all of you, grew up in this world. 
Some few of us remember when much of what is now our 
reality was nothing more than flights of fancy. 
> Red
WICCA
> Wiccanism is a fairly complicated religion. Much like how 
Christianity is split into numerous denominations and 
dogmas, so too is Wicca. The concept of sacrifice is not 
unknown, and bloodletting acts as a component (often 
optional) in several rituals, particularly if it is a higher-
level or more complex enchantment. Blood is symbolic 
in this regard, representing an investment of the self 
into an endeavor, and so isn’t necessarily a matter of 
physical harm or even true blood magic. It’s just a proof of 
commitment. If your friendly neo-pagan is mixing some 
of their own blood into warding materials, for example, 
it’s probably of a higher density or complexity than simple 
chalk and sage smudging.
The famous karmic rule of Wicca is that all your deeds 
are revisited on you threefold, so the idea of sacrificing 
someone else is particularly horrifying when your belief 
structure teaches that you will endure thrice the pain and 
loss of your own victim. Wiccans ted to be particularly 
sensitive about being misunderstood as blood mages. 
Some will cite their history of being burned at the stake 
(which many carry like a chip on their shoulder), others will 
point out that an essential tool of their craft, the athame, 
had its name misappropriated to describe soul-draining 
foci. Despite a faith that preaches healing and harmony, 
the classic image of the witch practicing their dark craft 
continues to hound the modern Wiccan, and likely will for 
some time more.
Of course, that doesn’t mean the occasional fallen 
practitioner won’t try to utilize sacrificial metamagic 
techniques. Some consider it a way of subverting the 
Threefold Law, making someone else take the weight of 
their sin all at once. Others consider themselves agents 
of a greater karmic cycle, or they subscribe to a darker 
view of the Horned God and the Goddess, anointing 
themselves with glyphs painted in stolen blood and 
offering up the sacrifice as proof of their devotion, shifting 
the crime into a form of service for their higher power, at 
least in their own mind. Given the vast disparity between 
the core tenets of the faith and these justifications, they 
are the rare exception, and any traditional follower of 
Wicca will offer their support in bringing down such 
hideous practices.
> Doc Fangs
> You’re a Wiccan, Doc?
> Lyran
> Following the Great Mother in my own way, I share some 
of the same methods and beliefs. You of all people should 
know: ask five mages of the same tradition about their 
beliefs, you’ll get at least seven different answers.
> Doc Fangs
THEURGY
> Christianity is a religion of blood, no matter how you slice it. 
The blood of the Savior, the Eucharist, transubstantiation, 
sacramental wine, you name it. Leviticus 17:1 1, Hebrews 
9:22, Genesis 9:4, the list goes on and on. Believe me, 
there are some Infected who take Christianity very, very 
literally. But for the practicing theurgist, blood can be a 
spontaneous manifestation of casting. While many priests 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    123
===== PDF PAGE IDX 124 =====
and lay casters are known to manifest “shamanic masks” 
in the spirit of their patron saint, some powerful castings 
have occasionally expressed stigmata, bleeding from the 
palms, feet, ribs, or pin pricks around the crown of the 
head, much like the wounds of Christ. It’s not a big jump 
from there to blood magic.
I mean, let’s face it: from the right point of view, Jesus 
sacrificed himself, and that resulted in some damn big 
mojo. In the same spirit, a theurgist might practice self-
flagellation, lashings, use of a cilice, or even crucifixion, 
deriving advanced power from the practice. If that’s not 
blood magic, I really don’t know what is.
> Hannibelle
> I’ve heard some congregations in Italy and Spain use 
a form of blood alchemy in their transubstantiation, 
achieving a much more “true” practice of the Eucharist. I 
didn’t try it.
> Traveler Jones
> I strongly suspect the Templars use blood magic, both 
on themselves and on “lambs, ” victims sacrificed in the 
name of their holy causes and conspiracies. You don’t 
really hear about Sylvestrines doing it, but then, I suspect 
plenty of them have no idea who is really pulling the 
strings of their organization.
> Elijah
DIMR
> The Draco Foundation, acting on behalf of the Dunklezahn 
Institute of Magical Research, is a primary mover 
and shaker in opposition to blood magic practices. 
Dunklezahn’s Will stipulated a standing bounty for any 
blood mages captured and turned in alive, paying out to 
the tune of a cool million nuyen per head. These days, the 
money from the will seems to have run low, or perhaps 
the sheer number of blood mages has grown too much for 
the funds to be enough to maintain the bounty. Personally, 
I have a hard time believing Dunklezahn didn’t plan for it. 
He seems to have planned for everything. But trying to 
understand the complexity of a draconic plot is one hell of 
a way to spend your life accomplishing nothing.
The big question for a lot of people has been, “What 
is the DIMR doing with these live captures?” It’s the “live” 
part that arouses suspicion. Rumors abound about the 
possible uses the Institute may have for living specimens, 
from interrogation to rehabilitation to brainwashing to 
dissection. There is, of course, no evidence of any of those, 
though the question remains. In the meantime, bounty 
hunters continue to stalk and capture these miscreants, 
and as long as the Foundation keeps paying, the world 
remains a little safer.
> Silk
> More and more, we’re recognizing that dragons know 
how to use blood magic. It’s not much of a stretch to 
think that the Foundation wants to see what innovations 
humans may have come up with, or even gauge our 
relative power level. Or maybe there are certain spells 
that require more mages, or even a sacrifice of those who 
have sacrificed others. This is all conjecture, of course.
> Arete
> I have it on good authority that at least one of their 
captures was later seen in the field carrying out directives 
on behalf of the Foundation. Given the rumors of Ares 
using brainwashed bug shamans to hunt bugs, it’s not too 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
BLOOD MAGE BOUNTIES
At present, the Draco Foundation offers bounties on live 
blood mages based on their power and infamy, primarily 
focusing on a Most Wanted list of particularly dangerous 
criminals. In game terms, this may be determined by their 
Notoriety and the Magic attribute. 
Minor blood mages may fetch a price of five thousand to 
ten thousand nuyen from the Draco Foundation, who usually 
prefer them alive, or from local law enforcement, who may pay 
on the lower end of the scale but accept dead ones readily. 
Powerful blood mages, with a Magic rating from 10 to 15, 
may be worth anywhere from seventy-five thousand to three 
hundred thousand. The price is almost always for the mage 
being brought in alive, and is usually offered by the Draco 
Foundation or another megacorporation interested in the 
mage’s capture. 
The blood mage will likely be wanted alive if their Notoriety 
is 10 or below. Above that, they are often accepted dead, as 
they have proven to be too dangerous to be taken alive. 
These are bounties that are generally considered to be 
the most risky around, and they carry a significant amount 
of prestige. The majority of the Most Wanted have been 
responsible for the deaths of multiple teams of shadowrunners 
and should represent an enormous challenge to your players. 
You may consider giving them a point of Street Cred for the 
accomplishment if word gets out, or Public Awareness if it 
makes headlines. 
In all cases, verification of the bounty’s use of blood magic 
is required to collect the reward. This may take the form of 
eyewitness accounts, reliable footage (perhaps from a third 
party), or magical forensics. 
See pp. 25-28, Hazard Pay, for some of the most notorious 
blood mage bounties.
124    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 125 =====
far of a stretch to think they might be turning blood mages 
against their own kind.
> Plan 9
> “Good authority?” Care to cite your sources?
> Snopes
> Well?
> Snopes
> I thought not.
> Snopes
> For most of my life, I have been considered something of a 
conspiracy theorist. Nothing so sensational as Plan 9, but 
more, I have believed in the possibility of extraordinary 
implications in this extraordinary world. The more 
jaded among us still resist ideas they choose to label as 
“outlandish, ” amusingly enough while parsing through 
articles in a shared consensual digital hallucination 
and talking to their friends, who belong to metahuman 
subspecies which were considered no more than fiction 
and myth a mere century ago. 
There are people alive, today, who remember the 
world before any of this. They remember when only 
humans walked the world. A world before the Matrix, 
before the megacorps, before magic and dragons and 
SINs. Had you told them what would happen in their 
lifetime, what they would live to see, they would have 
called you crazy, and been right to do so.
How are we still clinging to this outmoded sense of 
the mundane when we are surrounded with what was so 
recently implausible? How can we possess the ignorance 
and hubris that makes such doubt possible? 
Today, I learned that there are degrees of sacrificial 
magic. That a sacrifice can be noble, even selfless, or 
made in love. 
I also listened to mysterious people speak with the 
sanction of people I trust and respect, talking about 
previous ages as though they were there. People who 
offered tantalizing pieces of the truth in an environment 
where they were shielded from all questions. And if there 
is one thing I have learned about piecemeal knowledge, it 
is that those who offer it are trying to lead you somewhere.
I’m not making accusations, nor am I resentful. Quite 
the opposite. Frosty, Red, I appreciate you bringing the 
guests you did, and I respect their need to be cryptic. I 
have never been more motivated to find the truth than I 
am now.
> Elijah
> Fascinating discoveries. Far-Scholar would have been 
proud.
> Mameleu
> This is nothing we didn’t already know.
> Script-Diver
> It is not what we know, but what they know that matters. 
It will make all the difference in the days to come.
> Orange Queen
> Who the hell are they?
> Glitch
> Expectedly unexpected guests. Oops, guess that includes 
me, too!
> The Laughing Man
> Jane …
> Wordsmyth
> Bull, shut down the board! Now!
> Frosty
> CONNECTION TERMINATED
BLOOD IN,  
BLOOD OUT
Want to dive deeper into blood magic? Here’s how.
BLOOD SPELLS
All spells with the Blood descriptor require use of 
at least 1 Blood Magic Point generated by the Sac-
rifice metamagic to cast. The spells themselves do 
not expend the Blood Magic Point, a point must 
be used to either increase the Force of the spell, 
increase the caster’s Magic Rating for purposes of 
determining if the spell is Stun or Physical, or re-
duce the amount of Drain inflicted by the spell (per 
the Sacrifice rules, p. 90, Street Grimoire). 
COMBAT
BOIL BLOOD
(Blood, Direct, Elemental)
Type: P Range: LOS
Duration: I Damage: P Drain: F – 2
By exciting the blood in the body of a living 
host, the spell causes the target to sustain burning 
damage from within, bypassing armor. This spell 
deals Fire damage (p. 1 71, SR5) and is resisted with 
Body (+ Counterspelling). If the target has taken 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    125
===== PDF PAGE IDX 126 =====
Physical damage previously that left open wounds, 
the blood ignites on contact with air and may ig-
nite flammable materials it touches. The spell has 
no effect on targets without a circulatory system. 
CORPSE EXPLOSION
(Blood, Direct, Elemental)
Type: P Range: LOS
Duration: I Damage: P Drain: F
The most brutal (and gross) of the Corpse 
spells, this spell targets a corpse, violently exciting 
its blood and causing the body to explode, throw-
ing super-heated flesh, organs, broken bone, and 
gear fragments with the force of a frag grenade. 
The Damage Value of a successful Corpse Explo-
sion spell is the spell’s Force + net hits, with an AP 
equal to – (Force). The radius of the effect is equal 
to the corpse’s Body in meters. Damage from this 
spell is resisted with Body + Armor (adjusted for 
the spell’s AP). The Force of the spell must be equal 
to or greater than the Body of the corpse affected. 
If the caster mistakenly targets a living being, the 
spell fails. The rules for blasts against barriers (p. 
183, SR5) apply to the spell’s effects.
EMBOLISM
(Blood, Direct)
Type: P Range: LOS
Duration: I Damage: P Drain: F – 2
By breaking the steady flow of blood, the caster 
causes the target to suffer damage and crippling 
pain in the body part affected. Roll a 1D6 to deter-
mine where the embolism occurs: 
GIGER SPIT
(Blood, Direct, Elemental)
Type: P Range: T
Duration: I Damage: P Drain: F – 4
Biting their tongue or cheek, the mage spits a 
gob of acidic blood. The caster deals 1P damage 
to themselves, generating the Blood Magic Point 
required to cast this Blood spell. This attack has a 
range of (Magic) meters and deals Acid damage 
(p. 1 70, SR5).
EMBOLISM LOCATION TABLE
ROLL BODY PART* EFFECT
1 Head Stunned (Body + Willpower (4) Test to resist or target receives a –10 penalty to 
Initiative Score)
2 Right arm Broken Grip (target is unable to maintain their grip on anything in their hand, suffers a 
–1 dice pool penalty per injured arm for all Subduing or Clinching attacks, and drops any 
item in their hand for a number of Combat Turns equal to the DV of the attack
3 Left arm Broken Grip (target is unable to maintain their grip on anything in their hand, suffers a 
–1 dice pool penalty per injured arm for all Subduing or Clinching attacks, and drops any 
item in their hand for a number of Combat Turns equal to the DV of the attack
4 Right leg Slowed (target’s Movement, including both Walk and Run rate, is halved, and no Sprint 
tests are allowed)
5 Left leg Slowed (target’s Movement, including both Walk and Run rate, is halved, and no Sprint 
tests are allowed)
6 Torso Winded (target is unable to perform Complex Actions for a number of Combat Turns equal 
to the original DV of the attack)
* If the result of the random roll results in the spell targeting a body part that is missing or not biological (for example, a 
cyberarm), the spell has no effect. The spell has no effect on targets without a circulatory system.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
126    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 127 =====
ICE VEINS
(Blood, Direct)
Type: P Range: LOS
Duration: I Damage: Special Drain: F– 3
By lowering the target’s blood temperature, 
the mage causes the target to slow down and 
take damage. Targets take Stun damage and suf-
fer a –2 dice pool penalty to all actions performed 
with their extremities. Along with the normal uses 
of Blood Magic Points (p. 90, Street Grimoire), the 
caster may spend one point to add the following 
effects to the spell: Make the damage Physical, 
and the target’s Agility is treated as 2 lower for the 
purposes of determining Movement. The spell has 
no effect on targets without a circulatory system.
PYROHEMETICS
(Blood, Indirect, Elemental)
Type: P Range: LOS
Duration: I Damage: P Drain: F – 4
The mage flings a spatter of ignited blood, do-
ing fire damage. The caster deals 1P damage to 
themselves, generating the Blood Pool Point re-
quired to cast this Blood spell. This attack has a 
range of (Magic) meters and deals Fire damage (p. 
1 70, SR5).
RUPTURE
(Blood, Direct)
Type: P Range: T
Duration: I Damage: P Drain: F – 6
With this particularly traumatic spell, the caster 
seizes control of the blood of the target, forcing 
it to evacuate his body by whatever egress it can. 
The target begins to bleed from their eyes, ears, 
nose, and so forth, while thinner patches of skin 
first contuse, then split open as blood shoots out 
in a scarlet geyser. This spell can only affect targets 
with a circulatory system. The damage caused by 
this spell can be used with the Sacrifice metamag-
ic and to charge an athame.
HEALTH
CLOT
(Blood, Essence)
Type: M Range: T
Duration: S Drain: F – 2
A simple spell modifying the blood’s clotting 
ability, Clot causes the improved stabilization of 
bleeding wounds, which can greatly assist in sta-
bilizing a dying character who is bleeding out.
Any time you would take two or more boxes 
of damage to your Physical Condition Monitor, 
reduce the damage by one box. The Force of the 
spell must be equal to or greater than the Body 
of the target. Any attempts to stabilize a charac-
ter who is into overflow damage while under the 
effect of this spell gain a +1 dice pool modifier for 
every 2 hits on the spellcasting test.
SHARE DAMAGE 
(Blood)
Type: M Range: T
Duration: S Drain: F – 4
With this sympathetic spell, the blood mage 
joins his life force to another willing person, caus-
ing all Physical damage either individual takes to 
be shared between them, diluting the severity for 
the receiver. In the event of an uneven number of 
boxes of damage, Physical damage gives the extra 
point to whoever directly received the damage, 
but magical damage always gives the odd point 
to the caster of this spell. Stun damage is taken 
normally and cannot be shared. Damage already 
received by the target or the caster of the spell be-
fore the spell is cast is unaffected by the spell. 
SOMATIC HEALING
(Blood, Essence)
Type: M Range: T
Duration: P Drain: F – 4
The noblest of uses for blood magic, the caster 
transfers some of their life essence into the target, 
taking their wounds for them. The target heals a 
number of boxes of Physical damage equal to the 
spell’s hits from the Spellcasting test, while the 
caster takes the same amount of damage. This 
damage cannot be healed magically and must be 
recovered with mundane rest and care. Hits can 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    127
===== PDF PAGE IDX 128 =====
also be used to reduce the base time for the spell 
to become permanent; each hit spent this way 
shaves off 1 Combat Turn (you can split hits be-
tween healing and reducing time). 
SYMPATHETIC REPRISAL
(Blood)
Type: M Range: T
Duration: S Drain: F – 2
A more dangerous version of Share Damage, 
Sympathetic Reprisal curses a target so their me-
lee attacks against the caster cause the target to 
take damage in kind. This spell is cast with a Spell-
casting + Magic [Force] v. Body + Willpower Op-
posed Test. Any successful melee attack the target 
makes against the caster has a number of points 
of damage equal to the net hits of the Spellcast-
ing test immediately removed from the caster and 
transferred to the target. If both Stun and Physical 
damage are dealt with one attack, Stun is trans-
ferred first.
MANIPULATION
BLOOD PUPPET
(Blood, Mental)
Type: P Range: LOS
Duration: S Drain: F – 1
Similar to the Control Actions spell, you control 
the physical actions of your target like a puppe-
teer pulling strings by seizing control of the blood 
in their body. The victim’s consciousness is unaf-
fected, but you control the victim’s body. Use your 
own skills when forcing your target to perform ac-
tions. It takes a Complex Action to make the target 
perform any action. Blood Puppet only affects a 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
128    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 129 =====
single target. If the target of the spell successfully 
resists your control with a Willpower + Logic test 
(p. 292, SR5), they take (Force)P damage resisted 
by their Body as veins tear and capillaries burst 
under the stress. This spell can only affect targets 
with a circulatory system.
CORPSE SPIKES
(Blood, Environmental, Area)
Type: P Range: LOS (A)
Duration: I Drain: F
Targeting a dead body, this spell draws the 
blood out of the corpse and freezes in into a slip-
pery sheet studded with sharp, almost crystalline 
spikes that jut out violently, forming a dangerous 
obstacle to those around it and potentially impal-
ing anyone who slips on the ice. The affected area 
has a radius in meters equal to the Body of the 
corpse, with the corpse at its center. Characters 
crossing the frozen blood must make an Agility 
+ Reaction Test with a threshold equal to the hits 
you score to avoid falling prone. A character failing 
this test falls prone and takes (Force)P damage re-
sisted by Body + Armor.  The sheet melts at a rate 
of 1 square meter per minute at room temperature 
(faster when it’s hotter, slower when it’s colder, or 
not at all if it’s below freezing). If the caster mistak-
enly targets a living being, the spell fails. The Force 
of the spell must be equal to or greater than the 
Body of the corpse affected.
CORPSE LASH
(Blood, Environmental, Area)
Type: P Range: LOS (A)
Duration: I Drain: F – 1
Targeting a dead body, this spell causes the 
blood to burst forth in a swarm of tentacles, vio-
lently lashing out and grappling anyone nearby. 
Characters within or attempting to cross the affect-
ed area have their Agility reduced by every net hit 
on the Spellcasting test. If Agility is reduced to 0, 
the target is bound and unable to move his limbs. 
While bound by the spell, the target may attempt 
to crawl or hop short distances (at one-quarter 
their normal movement rate). Entangled targets 
may still defend and dodge against attacks, but 
they suffer a dice-pool modifier equal to the cast-
er’s net hits. A bound target may attempt to break 
free of the bindings by making a Strength + Body 
[Physical] or Escape Artist + Agility [Physical] vs. 
Force x 2 Opposed Test. The Force of the spell 
must be equal to or greater than the Body of the 
corpse affected. The affected area has a radius in 
meters equal to the Body of the corpse, with the 
corpse at its center. If the caster mistakenly targets 
a living being, the spell fails.
BLOOD WHIP
(Blood, Physical)
Type: P Range: T
Duration: I Drain: F-2
With a slice of the blade across the wrist, the 
mage causes some of their blood to erupt out in 
the form of a magical whip. The caster deals 1P 
damage to themselves, generating the Blood Pool 
Point required to cast this Blood Spell. The blood 
whip functions as a bullwhip (R&G p21). For ev -
ery two hits on the Spellcasting test, the lash gains 
+1P and -2AP. The whip has an Accuracy equal to 
the Force of the spell, and persists for that number 
of minutes. When wielded by the caster, attacks 
use Spellcasting +Agility. Any other person using 
the blood lash uses Exotic Melee Weapon (Bull-
whip) + Agility.
BLOOD BLADE
(Blood, Physical)
Type: P Range: T
Duration: S Drain: F – 1
Slicing open their palm or conjuring from a “do-
nor,” the mage crystallizes blood into a blade, any-
thing from a knife to a long sword. The blade has 
an Accuracy equal to the Force of the spell, and 
persists for that number of minutes. One hit on 
the Spellcasting test produces a small blade that 
deals damage as a knife, three hits on the Spell-
casting test produces a medium blade that deals 
damage as a sword, five hits on the spellcasting 
test produces a large blade that deals damage as 
a combat axe.
VISCERA WEB
(Blood, Physical, Damaging)
Type: P Range: LOS
Duration: S Drain: F + 4
A horrific spell, this causes widespread ruptur -
ing across the target’s body as their veins shoot 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    129
===== PDF PAGE IDX 130 =====
out to adhere to the environment surrounding 
them. This incapacitates them with extraordinary 
damage and pain, plus the fact that their living 
veins stick to the floor, walls, and ceiling. Any 
damage caused cutting them down may cause 
them to bleed out—assuming they survived the 
initial spell. The caster must win a Spellcasting 
+ Magic vs. Body (+ Counterspelling) Opposed 
Test. Additionally, the spell’s Force must equal or 
exceed the target’s Body. Non-living material—in-
cluding clothing, gear, and cyberware—are not af-
fected. The target’s Agility is reduced by every net 
hit on the Spellcasting test. If Agility is reduced to 
0, the target becomes fused to the nearest solid 
surface and unable to move their limbs without 
causing further damage to themselves. The tar -
get can painfully tear themselves free, though this 
causes additional damage equal to the net hits on 
the Spellcasting test and one additional box of 
Physical damage every (Body) minutes until they 
receive medical attention to stop the bleeding.
BLOOD RITUALS
The following rituals all require the Sacrifice 
metamagic to perform.
BLOOD BATH
(Adept, Blood)
The blood adept knows that blood within is life, 
and blood without is protection. Every scar was a 
wound that has grown tougher. But not all such 
armor need come from them. Adepts covered in 
blood can cause it to harden into a natural armor. 
The more blood, the tougher the armor. This ar -
mor stacks with standard armor for the purposes 
of determining encumbrance penalties (see Ar -
mor and Encumbrance, p. 169, SR5), but only if it 
coats the same regions covered by armor. For ex-
ample, a blood adept might wear an armored vest 
and pants, but paint their face, arms, and exposed 
flesh with blood to harden into a sheath without 
adding to their armor encumbrance.
To perform this ritual, the adept makes a Arcana 
+ Logic [Force] Test.  This ritual takes (Force) min-
utes to complete. The adept paints themselves with 
fresh blood from a sapient being. Each hit on the 
test grants +1 Armor or Astral Armor (either one or 
a combination of both can be chosen). The benefit 
ritual decreases by 1 every 2 hours as the blood de-
grades until it offers no further benefit. Washing off 
the blood ends the effect prematurely. Needless to 
say, walking around covered in blood is quite con-
spicuous and may draw unwanted attention.
BLOOD OATH
(Material Link)
In this ritual, the subject swears that they will 
perform a specific task and receives greater abili-
ty to achieve that goal in return. Appropriate oaths 
would include swearing to defend a specific indi-
vidual or to find a specific object. This oath must 
be taken freely, or the ritual fails. As part of the ritu-
al, the leader inflicts a number of boxes of Physical 
damage to the subject equal to or less than the Force 
of the ritual. For every 2 boxes of Physical damage 
inflicted, the subject chooses one skill that they will 
use to achieve the goal of their oath. They receive 
a +1 dice pool and +1 limit modifier to the chosen 
skill. This modifier only applies when the subject is 
directly working to fulfill their oath. For example if a 
player chose Pistols as a skill for an oath to protect 
an individual, they would get the benefit of the oath 
if they were attacked while guarding the individu-
al but not if they were attacked while alone. Once 
the ritual is complete, the leader may spend Karma 
equal to (2 + Willpower of the subject) to make the 
oath permanent; otherwise it lasts for (Force) days. 
If the subject achieves the goal of their oath, the 
effect of the ritual ends. If the subject of the oath 
intentionally betrays that oath, they suffer twice the 
damage they had inflicted on them during the cast-
ing of the oath ritual. Even if the subject survives 
this damage, the injuries leave severe scars, forev-
er marking them as an oath breaker to those who 
know the signs. This damage only occurs if the sub-
ject breaks their oath, not if they fail to achieve its 
goal. The leader can hold active oaths with up to his 
Charisma in subjects. The ritual takes (Force) hours 
to complete. An individual can only have one ac-
tive oath at a time. A blood oath does not require a 
blood magic Addiction Test, as it is purely voluntary 
and the required damage represents commitment 
rather than suffering.
DEATH CURSE
(Material Link)
This ritual allows the magician to exact final ven-
geance on anyone who slays them. If the subject of 
this ritual dies, they burn all their Edge, and a blood 
spirit is automatically summoned from their corpse. 
The Force of the blood spirit summoned is equal to 
the hits on a Magic + (number of Edge burned) test. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
130    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 131 =====
The Force of the ritual sets the limit. Because the rit-
ual does not actually use the Summoning skill, any 
Awakened individual can be the subject.
The spirit has no master, but it has a burning 
desire to destroy the one who killed the subject of 
the ritual. The violence of the death is enough to 
create a brief metaphysical link between the sub-
ject and their killer, allowing the blood spirit to rec-
ognize them on sight. Once the blood spirit exacts 
its revenge, it is free to return to whatever dark 
metaplane it came from, or more likely to continue 
on a killing spree. Because of the high potential to 
set a rampaging blood spirit loose, this ritual is ta-
boo even in areas where blood magic is tolerated.
GUARDIAN BOND
(Material Link)
A benign variation of the Blood Bond ritual (p. 
125, Street Grimoire), this ritual bonds the magician 
to a genetically related subject. Unlike a Blood 
Bond, a Guardian Bond protects the subject, not the 
caster. The minimum Force of the ritual is equal to 
the subject’s Willpower. Once the ritual is complete, 
the leader may spend Karma equal to 2 + Willpow-
er of the subject to make the bond permanent, oth-
erwise it lasts for (Force) days. This bond creates a 
low-level telepathic link between the leader and 
the subject (they know each other’s emotional state 
and general whereabouts). The magician may use 
a form of Empathic healing (p. 1 71, Street Grimoire) 
to transfer physical damage from the subject to 
himself, if the subject is within (100 x Magic Rat-
ing) meters from the magician. The leader can bond 
up to their Charisma in subjects.   This ritual takes 
(Force) days to complete. This ritual requires the 
Sacrifice metamagic to cast, however any Blood 
Magic Points spent must originate from the leader 
of the ritual. This ritual does not necessitate an Ad-
diction test for the use of blood magic.
METAMAGIC
PREDATOR FEAST  
(ADEPTS ONLY)
PREREQUISITE: CANNIBALIZE
The adept has tasted the flesh of its own kind 
and found it appealing. The life force, blood, bone, 
sinew—all are the same components which com-
pose the adept’s body. By committing cannibalis-
tic acts, they can gain temporary regeneration of 
their own wounds. 
Note that corporations and other groups will 
gladly hunt down such an aberrant individual for 
the DIMR bounty, and DNA from their saliva and 
dental patterns from multiple victims can be used 
to hunt them down. Being a cannibal in the Sixth 
World isn’t easy.
Predator feast is an advanced metamagic tech-
nique that builds upon the Cannibalize power (p. 
90, Street Grimoire). Predator feast functions the 
same as Cannibalize, except that instead of gen-
erating 3 Blood Magic Points, the adept gains the 
Regeneration critter power (p. 400, SR5). The effect 
lasts for (Magic x initiate grade) Combat Turns, but 
the adept may immediately spend 3 Karma to ex-
tend the duration to (Magic x initiate grade) days. 
SOUL TETHER
PREREQUISITE: SACRIFICE 
Instead of absorbing the life energy of a slain 
opponent, the blood mage channels the energy 
into a kind of temporary battery to power a sus-
tained spell. In addition to the usual uses of Blood 
Magic Points, they may now be used to sustain 
a spell, much like a sustaining focus. The Blood 
Magic Points used to power this ability must have 
been drawn from a victim that died in the pro-
cess. A number of Blood Magic Points equal to 
the Force of the spell must be spent to sustain a 
spell in this way. However, the process slowly eats 
away at the bound soul, consuming it to fuel the 
spell. Each hour, the spell loses one point of Force, 
until the soul, screaming, is snuffed out complete-
ly. This kind of magic is incredibly destructive on 
a spiritual level. Assensing tests against a blood 
mage sustaining a spell in this way receive a +2 
dice pool modifier to recognize the nature of the 
mage’s magic. Spirits react in an especially neg-
ative way. If a blood mage with a spell sustained 
through soul tether attempts to summon any type 
of spirit other than a blood spirit, the spirit gains a 
+4 dice pool bonus to resist the Summoning test. 
Other spirits encountering the blood mage will act 
with hostility, including attacking them preferen-
tially if free to do so.
SPIRITUAL SACRIFICE
PREREQUISITE: SACRIFICE
This technique was thought lost around the 
time of Crash 2.0. The blood mage has learned to 
tap into the inherent link between the flesh and a 
possessing entity. Invested flesh forms, ally spirits 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    131
===== PDF PAGE IDX 132 =====
that have a living physical body, such as an animal 
familiar, and possessed hosts (loa, shedim, etc.) 
may now be used in sacrifice. This can be used as 
a kind of violent exorcism in the last instance.
BLOOD CRYSTAL 
QUALITIES
Blood crystal qualities do not count as standard 
qualities. They do not count against your maxi-
mum quality limit at character creation, nor does 
their Karma cost double after character creation. 
These qualities come in two forms, one repre-
senting the implantation of a blood crystal and 
another representing growing mastery over an 
implanted crystal allowing enhanced abilities re-
lated to it.
Like cyberware or bioware, implantation of a 
blood crystal reduces a character’s Essence. Nor -
mally this would result in a reduction of the char -
acter’s Magic rating, but the blood crystal replac-
es the lost Essence with a magical enhancement 
in the same amount, leaving the Magic attribute 
unaffected. The enhanced Essence only prevents 
MAgic loss; use the lower value for al other pur -
poses (e.g., calculating the Social limit or surviving 
an Essence attack). For example, if the character 
had 6.0 Essence, but 1.0 of that was augmented 
Essence from a blood crystal, and the individual 
was subjected to an Essence Drain attack, they 
would die when 5.0 essence was drained.
If the blood crystal is removed, the augmented 
essence supplied by the crystal is removed as well, 
and the individual suffers the effects of Essence 
loss on their Magic as normal. During bonding, the 
blood crystal grows and takes the shape of any 
missing or severely damaged limb or organ, repli-
cating its natural function perfectly. In the case of 
limbs, unaugmented Physical Attributes are repli-
cated as well. Magical enhancements such as an 
adept’s Improved Agility power or a mage’s Im-
proved Strength spell function normally, but mun-
dane enhancements such as muscle replacement 
cyberware are not replicated.
Anyone bonded to a blood crystal has their 
Physical and Stun damage tracks reduced by 1 box 
each for as long as the crystal is bonded to them. 
Additional implantations increase this loss further. 
Implanted blood crystals can be damaged almost 
as readily as the flesh it replaced, but it can also 
heal just as if it were a natural body part. Mundane 
medical techniques cannot aid this healing, but 
magical healing works normally.
In spite of their highly magical nature, blood 
crystals are relatively difficult to notice on the as-
tral. The inherent nature of their bonding and the 
replication of essence only shows slight distur -
bances in an individual’s aura. It is about as difficult 
to detect a blood crystal through astral perception 
as it is to detect high-grade bioware (4 hits per the 
Assensing Table, p. 313, SR5).
CRYSTAL BREATH 
COST: 5 KARMA, 1.0 ESSENCE
Your lungs have been replaced with blood crys-
tal. You receive a +2 dice bonus against inhalation 
vector toxin resistance tests and a +1 dice pool 
bonus to resist fatigue.
CRYSTAL EYE
COST: 10 KARMA, 1.0 ESSENCE
One or both of your eyes have been replaced 
with blood crystal. Essence loss is the same 
whether one or both eyes are replaced, and later 
replacement of a second eye would require fur -
ther loss of Essence. You can see as well as the 
average individual of your metatype, but you lose 
any special vision types granted by your metatype 
if both eyes are replaced. In addition, you receive 
low-light vision, and +1 die per eye replaced on 
visual Perception tests (not cumulative with any 
technological vision enhancement). You can no 
longer wear contacts, as your eyes have become 
faceted gems.
BLOOD ALCHEMY
By using the Sacrifice metamagic, an alchemist can 
enhance their alchemical preparations in the following ways:
• Increase the Force of an alchemical spell being cast 
by one per Blood Magic Point; this can exceed twice 
the caster’s Magic Rating.
• Increase the caster’s Magic Rating for the purposes 
of determining if the alchemical spell’s drain is 
Physical or Stun, by one per Blood Magic Point.
• Reduce the amount of Drain the alchemical spell inflicts 
by one per Blood Magic Point, to a minimum of 0. 
• Increase the duration before the preparation begins 
losing power to (Potency x 4) hours by spending 
Blood Magic Points equal to the Potency.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
132    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 133 =====
CRYSTAL GUT
COST: 5 KARMA AND 0.5 ESSENCE; 
MUST HAVE HAD YOUR LIVER, KIDNEYS, 
STOMACH, OR INTESTINES REPLACED.
One or more of your internal organs has been 
replaced with a crystal that assumes the function of 
the organ perfectly. When the liver is replaced, you 
gain +2 dice to ingestion-vector Toxin Resistance 
tests. When the stomach is replaced, you gain a ten 
percent reduction to Lifestyle costs. When the kid-
neys are replaced, you gain +2 dice to injection-vec-
tor Toxin Resistance tests. When the intestines are 
replaced, you no longer defecate or urinate and can 
go twice as long without water. For each gut organ 
replaced, you gain a +1 dice pool bonus to resist 
fatigue. Multiple damaged or failing gut organs can 
be replaced at one time with the application of one 
inert blood crystal, though the Karma and Essence 
cost must still be paid for each gut organ.
CRYSTAL JAW
COST: 10 KARMA AND 1.0 ESSENCE.
A bonded crystal rarely found among partic-
ularly vicious blood adepts, the crystal jaw sup-
plants the jaw bone and replaces the teeth with 
sharp crystal shards. Attacks with a crystal jaw use 
the Unarmed Combat skill with a Natural Weap-
ons specialization and the following weapon stats: 
(STR + 2)P, AP –4, Reach –1.
CRYSTAL LIMB
COST: 10 KARMA AND  
1.0 ESSENCE PER LIMB.
Bonding a crystal in this manner will allow for 
a functional replacement of a damaged or lost 
limb. It will match the Strength and Agility of the 
individual’s normal limb. The limb will benefit from 
any magical enhancements to Strength or Agility, 
but not any bonuses originating from cyberware 
or bioware augmentations (for example, muscle 
replacement). Limbs replaced by a blood crystal 
provide +1 Armor. Limbs that are severed can re-
generate with time, provided at least fifty percent 
of the blood crystal still remains. Such regenera-
tion takes (6 – Body) weeks (minimum 1 week). 
During the time while a crystal limb regenerates, 
the limb’s ability to augment the player’s Essence 
is hampered, increasing all drain values by 2.
CRYSTAL SPINE 
COST: 10 KARMA AND 1.0 ESSENCE
Able to cure paralysis from a wide range of spi-
nal injuries and neurodegenerative disorders, this 
type of blood crystal is often seen as a miracle for 
mages who struggle with the decision whether 
or not to cripple their magic to regain the ability 
to walk. The bonded crystal replaces the spine 
itself, as well as core of the central nervous sys-
tem. Though the body system being replaced is 
naturally fully internal, this type of crystal bond-
ing grows to show small crystalline protrusions on 
the back running along the spine. Upon bonding 
this blood crystal, you receive a +2 initiative bonus 
and +1 Armor. This initiative bonus does not stack 
with any other initiative enhancement, whether it’s 
magical, chemical, or mundane. Individuals with 
this type of blood crystal are particularly prone to 
hearing voices. 
CRYSTALLINE BLADE
COST: 10 KARMA
Prerequisite: Crystal Limb (Arm), Crystal Claws. 
You have gained greater control over your 
blood crystal arm, allowing you to shape it into 
a formidable blade. As a simple action, you can 
shape your entire forearm into a long, sharp crys-
talline blade (DV (Str+3), AP –2, Reach 1). If you 
have more than one blood crystal arm, this ability 
can be used with either.
CRYSTALLINE CLAWS
COST: 5 KARMA
PREREQUISITE: CRYSTAL LIMB. 
You have consciously learned to exert a small 
degree of control over the shape of your crystal 
limb. As a free action, you can shape the fingers or 
toes of your crystal limb into sharp claws [DV(Str + 
1), AP –1]. If you have more than one blood crys-
tal limb, this ability can be used with any limb you 
possess.
CRYSTALLINE DIVER
COST: 10 KARMA
PREREQUISITE: CRYSTAL BREATH
You have realized that your lungs are no longer 
flesh and blood and are not held to the limits of 
flesh. You can breathe underwater as well as you 
can in open air (you still suffer the normal penal-
ties for pressure and cold while underwater).
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    133
===== PDF PAGE IDX 134 =====
CRYSTALLINE GRACE
COST: 10 KARMA
PREREQUISITE: CRYSTAL LIMB  
(BOTH LEGS). 
You have learned to push your new legs be-
yond the capabilities of flesh and bone. You gain a 
+2 to Jumping tests and can run for twice as long 
before suffering from fatigue.
CRYSTALLINE REFLEXES
COST: 15 KARMA
The blood crystal has further integrated into 
your central nervous system, facilitating rapid in-
nervation of major muscle groups. You receive a 
+2 dice pool modifier to all Defense tests.
CRYSTALLINE SHARDS
COST: 10 KARMA
PREREQUISITE: CRYSTAL LIMB (ARM)
By learning to harness some of the innate re-
generative and shape-changing capabilities of 
your crystal arm, you can cause the growth of 
needle-like crystalline shards and fling them as a 
hail of deadly projectiles. This attack is a standard 
action of Throwing Weapons + Agility [Physical], 
dealing (STR + 3)P damage, AP +4. They have the 
same range as shuriken (p. 185, SR5). Due to the 
similarity of the attack to flechette ammo, defend-
ers receive a –3 modifier, and the attack cannot be 
used with Called Shots. The rapid growth of these 
crystals is taxing on the body as the crystal draws 
on your blood to fuel itself. Each time this ability is 
used, the bearer takes 1P unresisted Physical dam-
age that cannot be healed by magic.
CRYSTALLINE VISION
COST: 15 KARMA
PREREQUISITE: CRYSTAL EYE.
Further attunement to your blood crystal eye 
(or eyes) has allowed you to peer beyond the 
mundane world. You gain the ability to perceive 
astrally, and you may take ranks in Assensing if 
you were not already able.
NEW SPIRITS
BONE SPIRIT
If blood is passion, then bones are reliable. 
Bone spirits must be assembled from a great pile 
of raw material; they never drop with gore and 
gristle but always appear clean and polished. They 
have no particular opinion regarding anything at 
all, lacking the rapacious appetite of blood spir -
its, and even the desire for freedom that normal 
spirits exhibit. A bone spirit is happy enough to 
perform any service it is able without complaint, 
though it makes for a poor conversationalist. They 
are not stupid; they simply appreciate simple di-
rectives. Its form depends on the bones it’s made 
from: if it consists of the large skeletons of bulls, 
metahumans, and similar ilk, it takes a stable, firm 
form. Made from the bones of smaller animals, 
such as alley cats and devil rats, the bones rustle 
and rattle as they shift around one another in an al-
most amorphous, roiling mass. Larger bones, such 
as those from elephants, may break to conform to 
the spirit’s size, while exoskeletons such as those 
from giant insects like the wyrd mantis will shift 
about over the others, sliding over the mass. Note 
that bone spirits will not possess the bones or exo-
skeletons of bodies that have been used by other 
blood spirits, bug spirits, or have served as corps 
cadavres. If asked, they will say, “Those bones 
have earned their rest.”
Bone spirits have no incorporeal form; they 
are always formed from a mass of bones as per a 
possession spirit (use the same quantity rules as 
for a homunculus). Less prone to escaping control 
than other types of spirit, it can be maintained with 
a steady diet of bones added to its roiling form. 
These spirits act much like a homunculus in this 
way, showing little initiative or free will of their 
own, simply doing their duty until they run out of 
power, are destroyed, or their summoner is killed. 
Left to their own devices, these spirits simply sit 
and wait. If attacked, they will simply look at their 
attacker without offering resistance. If they are 
questioned, they simply reply, “I wait to rest.”
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
134    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 135 =====
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+3 F F F+2 F F–1 F F–1 F/2 F F
Initiative (F x 2) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Perception, Unarmed 
Combat
Powers Astral Form, Engulf, Natural Weapon 
(DV=(Strength) Physical Damage, AP—), 
Possession (Bones), Sapience
Optional Powers Enhanced Senses (Hearing, Low-Light Vision, 
Thermographic Vision, or Smell), Guard, Noxious 
Breath
Special A bone spirit can consume the bones of a 
dead creature to heal itself. The total Body of 
creature whose skeleton is being consumed 
determines the healing; the spirit restores 1 
Physical damage box per 2 Body worth of bones 
consumed.
BLOOD SHADE
A horrific specialization of a blood spirit, this 
entity is siphoned exclusively from the blood 
and spirit of a single individual. The blood spirit 
binds with the body, much like a “good merge” 
bug spirit, gaining access to all of the sacrifice’s 
skills, memories, and mannerisms. They can take 
the form of the host as they were when they were 
alive, passing all physical tests to determine their 
identity and masking their aura to fool cursory as-
sensing. They can offer their summoner any se-
crets the sacrifice had and can get close to their 
victims with ease.
Its true form is the same shape as its host, but 
composed entirely of blood, with eyes that appear 
to be pitch-black pits and perfectly white teeth. 
It often smiles when it anticipates feeding, and it 
will play mind games with its prey, enjoying their 
fear when it feeds. If/when it goes uncontrolled, it 
will usually stalk and kill those related to the vic-
tim, finding their blood and Essence sweetest. For 
every six points of Essence it draws from genetic 
family, it gains one Force.
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F F+2 F+2 F–1 F F F F+1 F/2 F F
Initiative [(F x 2) +2] + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Counterspelling, 
Impersonation, Perception, Unarmed Combat
Powers Astral Form, Aura Masking, Deathly Aura, Energy 
Drain (Essence), Fear, Magical Guard, Mimicry, 
Possession (Blood), Realistic Form, Sapience
Optional Powers Accident, Banishing Resistance, Compulsion, 
Paralyzing Touch, Search
Weaknesses Evanescence
THICKER  
THAN WATER
The risks of blood magic. This isn’t a tool chest of 
new ways to frag the rent-a-cops. This is playing 
with fire. It’s potentially addictive, almost always 
harmful, and can stain your aura in ways that may 
affects spells and summoning for a long time—
maybe even forever. Everything has a price, and 
blood is the coin of sacrifice.
BLOOD MAGIC  
AND ADDICTION
The use of blood magic has a high potential for 
addiction. The psychological effects of receiving 
such a rush of magical power with no cost to one-
self is a temptation that only the strongest-willed 
individuals can resist. However, benign blood 
magic is possible. It is sometimes called mar -
tyred blood magic—as opposed to sacrificial 
blood magic—in which the caster damages them-
selves in order to generate Blood Magic Points. 
When these points are generated in this way, no 
Addiction test is necessary, regardless of how 
they are spent. In such cases, a blood mage can 
cause physical damage to themselves in order to 
generate and immediately expend Blood Mag-
ic Points as part of the action of casting a spell 
without suffering any applicable penalties due to 
the damage inflicted until after the spell has been 
completed. Casting a spell or performing a ritual 
in such a way is not addictive.
The addictive potential of blood magic is psy -
chological. It has an Addiction Rating equal to the 
character’s Magic and an Addiction Threshold of 
2.  If more Blood Magic Points are spent on a sin-
gle effect than the character’s Magic, the Addic-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    135
===== PDF PAGE IDX 136 =====
tion Threshold increases by 1. Blood magic func-
tions similar to any other addiction (p. 413, SR5) 
but differs in a few ways.
Mild addiction still feels like having total con-
trol. The individual will feel the urge to turn to the 
power without questioning if they need it. They 
begin losing the perspective of the cost others pay 
for their power.
Moderate addiction marks an increase in 
the desire to use the power and doubt that they 
can function effectively without it. The pain and 
deaths they have caused mean less to them, and 
they feel increasingly disconnected from the rest 
of humanity. They begin acting cruel and vicious 
toward their allies, suspecting them of being envi-
ous of their power.
Severe addictions represent the stereotypical 
maniacal blood mage. They kill without hesitation 
or compunction. They see themselves as superhu-
man, and other metahumans are just fuel for their 
addiction. Using any of their magic without en-
hancing it with blood magic is unthinkable.
Burnout blood mages are an out-of-control 
freight train of death. They cannot go a day with-
out killing and do not hesitate to dump as much 
power as possible into every spell or set power -
ful blood spirits loose to massacre anyone within 
reach. Causing death has become their only pur -
pose. If a burnout blood mage fails an Addiction 
test, they must kill the next sapient being they 
come in contact with (rather than losing Body or 
Willpower as usual).
Blood magic use triggers an addiction roll un-
der the following conditions:
• Overcasting while expending Blood Magic 
Points.
• Expending more than twice your initiate 
grade in Blood Magic Points toward one 
effect.
• Killing a sapient being purely for the pur -
pose of generating Blood Magic Points or 
as part of a ritual.
• Inflicting damage to a sapient victim un-
able to defend themselves in order to gen-
erate Blood Magic Points.
• Generating Blood Magic Points from a vic-
tim and using them on a spell to harm that 
same victim (you gain +2 to the Addiction 
test if you are defending yourself).
OPTIONAL SACRIFICE RULES
The following rules cover different ways blood magic can be 
used, and can be employed if gamemasters and players wish to 
add more details to how blood is shed in the Sixth World.
• Non-sapient Awakened: This requires the death of a 
paracritter, adds half the sacrifice’s Magic rating in Blood 
Magic Points.
• Metahuman: The standard for sacrificial metamagic. Use 
standard rules.
• Awakened Metahuman: As sacrificial metamagic, but add 
Blood Magic Points equal to the victim’s Magic attribute if 
they are killed.
• Self Harm: A lesser sacrifice, but the bread and butter for the 
benevolent blood mage. That being said, it cannot be healed 
by any magical means and requires time and potentially 
medical attention. Overcasting in this fashion causes a 
multiplier to the healing time, as the body’s life energy has 
weakened and cannot assist in natural recovery.
• Permanent Maiming: This is putting out an eye or slicing 
off a hand. You or the target gain a negative quality or lose 
an attribute point, as determined by the gamemaster. Two 
Blood Magic Points are generated for every 1 point of 
Physical damage dealt in this manner. The negative quality 
or attribute point cannot be countered with cyber. This 
can only be performed with an immobilized victim or by a 
character maiming themselves.
• Loved Ones: Indisputably evil, and yet has the greatest 
possible return on investment. You can conduct grand 
rituals with astounding success if you’re willing to do this. 
You’re also guaranteed to be twisted by the experience. 
This kind of sin stains the soul forever. Gain 3 Blood Magic 
Points for every 1 box of Physical damage inflicted. If the 
loved one is killed, increase the Addiction quality by one 
step with no chance to resist.
• Essence: Standard sacrificial metamagic on yourself. 
Carries the same Essence problem as Permanent 
Maiming, meaning you can’t leap to have the lost Essence 
replaced with cyberware. After the maiming, receive 
9 Blood Magic Points for each full point of Essence 
sacrificed, rounded down.
• Pre-packaged Blood: No good at all. Might be used as 
summoning material for a blood spirit to give it mass, or to set 
the mood of a ritual, but it has no mechanical use beyond that.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
136    BLOOD MAGIC >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 137 =====
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< BLOOD MAGIC    137
===== PDF PAGE IDX 138 =====
BREATH OF  
THE WILD
The man born seventy-odd years ago as Cecil Mains 
but now known as The Wolf That Walks as a Man 
peered deep into the snowfall. The red-tinted black -
out light of his ancient Skidoo snowmobile showed 
the few traces of the game trail he and his fellow 
poachers were following, packs loaded down with 
fresh meat, hides, bones, and other items to smuggle 
from the Algonquin-Manitou Council lands and back 
into his native UCAS. The forest closed tight around 
the small vehicles and their riders, the evergreen and 
bare branches hiding them at least partially from view 
above, magic and spirits hiding the rest. This was his 
element, the middle of winter, in snowfall, moving in 
ways that even magicians could not spot. But there 
were worse things in the woods of what had once 
been central Manitoba, and shelter was needed for 
the night. A handful of kilometers, his thoughts ringed 
in a constant tolling. We can do it.
But that cycle was interrupted by the on-and-off 
blinking of a light just like the one on his own snow -
mobile. It came from behind him, similar to the way 
a person in the city might flash some high-beams to 
get someone’s attention. The AMC military’s search-
and-rescue teams might just be out on a night like 
tonight, and anything that would attract their atten-
tion was forbidden to the group outside of what was 
necessary to travel, unless it was a true emergency. 
Even magic could only do so much to keep them 
concealed when someone was shouting and waving 
lights, and the group only had meager magical pow -
ers available to them to begin with. The AMC was 
literal death on poachers, and Wolf knew his team 
wanted to live to realize and enjoy their meager 
gains. It would be a brief respite—it always was—and 
then they would head back into the forests that made 
up their real lives, the spot that gave purpose to the 
skills and abilities they had. Most modern metahu-
mans had thought their particular set of skills to be 
obsolete, long unnecessary in the tech- and Mag-
ic-aided Sixth World. Wolf lived to prove them wrong.
The four circled the halftracks, killing the engines, 
and huddled close together so they wouldn’t have 
to speak loudly at each other through the blanketing 
snow. Betty was the easiest to notice, being a troll 
and all, a fact that was clearly visible as she was the 
least bundled up. Also, she was huge. But she was 
used to weather worse than this in the Northern 
Winnipeg Barrens that had been her home. She was 
138    >> BREATH OF THE WILD  <<
===== PDF PAGE IDX 139 =====
steady as can be, never talking when a grunt would 
do, and rarely even grunting. Charleen was her op-
posite, needing to tell at least one tall tale per day, 
and bundled up so tight that only her eyes and tusks 
could be seen. The fourth member was Fred, the 
dwarf who gathered them together and led them. He 
was an expert in trapping small game—and he had 
heard all the “small game” jokes as well. At the mo-
ment, he looked very, very worried. “Checked the 
astral plane when I felt a chill,” he said. His ability to 
astrally perceive was his only magical ability, but a 
very useful one. “I saw a herd of windmares coming, 
and”—he swallowed hard—“a windstallion.”
The Wolf thought hard, not wasting any time ask -
ing for a confirmation, for windmares were bad news. 
Their cold chill when they went through a person was 
horrific, especially in a cold place like this, and no shel-
ter stopped them. Their chill went deep, right into the 
core, leaving your soul frozen. The much-rarer wind-
stallion would pick up that soul, taking it with them 
as they ran through a metahuman. No shelter other 
than a proper home would protect against them, and 
no quickly summoned spirit would be strong enough 
to protect people. He needed something stronger, 
more dangerous. More dangerous to the windstal-
lions and himself both
“Set up a quinzhee,” The Wolf ordered the others, 
“I’ll see about getting us the protection we need.” 
The other three looked at each other, wondering 
what was going to happen, but just as quickly set to 
the snow-hut shelter, the snow absolutely perfect for 
just such a thing. The wind was dying down; snow 
starting to stave off, but it was the calm before the 
stampede, before the ill meaning creatures of the 
Sixth World came forth to strip from them the ability 
to gaze upon yet another day.
Picking through his meager supplies, Wolf careful-
ly picked out a few pieces that meant a lot to him 
and to the area in general—all things he made from 
these woods and were used for hunting. Tools and 
small traps, handmade and natural items, the last 
of his homegrown tobacco, and a locket with a pic-
ture of his long-dead parents, who had been in the 
woods of former Northern Ontario during the Great 
Ghost Dance and never had their bodies recovered. 
He also brought out the hand drum he had crafted 
many years ago. Finally, he pulled out the last of his 
smudge pack, lighting it up and having the smoke go 
>> BREATH OF THE WILD  <<    139
BY RAYMOND CROTEAU
===== PDF PAGE IDX 140 =====
over him while he concentrated. He worked hard to 
not curse himself for running out of his usual supplies 
for summoning and dealing with spirits of all types. 
But the patrols were thicker in their area than ever, ap-
parently hunting after some lost civilians. Prepared, 
he found an area of snow that he was able to quickly 
shift away, finding a few rocks and frozen hard dirt to 
hold his objects while he sat down on a hard piece of 
ice. He then made a tiny fire in the center.
Wolf chanted low, centering him as he started to 
shift his perception, seeing what was not really there, 
things the vast majority of people in the world could 
never imagine. Wisps of mana flowed out from him. 
As he mentally pleaded for one of the local spirits 
to arrive and talk, the fire twisted, broke free and 
wandered over to make a deal. He started sweat-
ing, and he paused in his drumming to wring out his 
headband by instinct, adding his own personal scent 
to the summoning. Minutes passed. Ten. Fifteen. 
Twenty. He tried all the languages he had learned 
in his long life, English, French, Cree, Ojibwe, Inukti-
tut, Spanish, Portuguese, and Newfie. But the spirits 
only watched, staying silent in the trees and under 
the snow. His fellow travelers were making prog-
ress building a four-person shelter, similar to a cheap 
and knocked-together igloo that wouldn’t last long. 
It only needed to stay upright for a night or two. A 
shanty shack made of snow, essentially. 
“Sing,” he ordered, wanting their physical voices 
to join his mental chant. They looked at each other in 
confusion, but the snow started to fall harder again, 
and they broke into the ancient classic rowing song 
“Alouette,” which had been sung by their hunting and 
traveling forbearers, Le Voyageurs, as they used the 
song to time how they worked on the quinzhee. This 
song attracted attention—many old spirits had heard 
it time and again as they slept through the time of 
low magic that was the Fifth World, and now they 
came closer, to see what voices were bringing back 
this simple tale.
Their interest was piqued, but still none of the spir-
its came forward to engage. The trio shifted to “En 
Roulant Ma Boule,” as Wolf threw a few more items 
into the little fire. Spices and herbs to make the bland 
trail food more interesting, a hand-rolled Cuban ci-
gar he had planned to enjoy when he got back to the 
UCAS, a piece of jerky that was originally intended to 
be part of dinner. Finally, as the snow and wind rose to 
skin-cutting levels, he sighed and rolled up his sleeve, 
pulling out a small flint knife he knapped himself. He 
cut deep into his leathery skin, next to the many, 
many other scars that had come from a far-too-long 
life in rough situations like this one. Some were an-
cient and nearly faded, others fresh enough to still be 
red and sore. He got a little blood flowing, sprinkling 
drops of it into the fire, sizzling and bringing forth the 
smoke to the entire crowd of collected wild spirits, 
making him easy prey. If the spirits here decided he 
was unwanted, they could track him long and far for 
however wide an area they wanted. Some of them 
might well decide he would never be free of them.
But it worked. A spirit emerged from the smoke, 
whirling around like a small tornado that grabbed 
pieces of wood and clumps of dirt from all over the 
forested area, forming itself from the environment. 
Smoke, sticks, snow, rocks, ice, and an elk’s skull, 
glowing in the empty sockets that shined with the 
age of countless centuries. It towered over the small 
group, then settled down, hunching over as if to talk 
to a small child. It inclined its skull and motioned 
with a hand made from twigs and small bones. Light-
ly glowing sap could be seen between the cracks of 
the materials that made up his form. The source of 
the glow was unclear; if Wolf were pressed, he would 
say it was the glow of life. A heat came off the spirit’s 
physical form, warm for now but threatening to burn. 
There was magic here that humanity had long forgot-
ten, some elements that perhaps were best left that 
way. The spirit gave a cough—as if it somehow had 
lungs and a throat that were coated with dust from 
long years of disuse. 
“You have caught my attention, mortal, but only 
briefly. Not all who have done so have survived the 
experience. I smell the blood of much game on your 
soul, and the blood of more than one of your own 
kind, but little accomplishment in your scent. You are 
unlike most hunters I smell in this age. None have 
I spoken to know of you killing for sport. This and 
this alone gives you a splinter of my time.” The spirit 
made no physical sound as it “spoke.” Its words went 
to the hearts of the gathered group, resonating in 
their blood. It spoke the language of mana, meaning 
Wolf was in the best position to understand its nu-
ances and inflections.
“We are, as you see, four hunters, oh spirit of this 
land. We follow—or try to follow, for none are able 
to succeed at all times—the old ways, ways that had 
been half-forgotten before we were born. We take 
the old, the lame. We devour them in thanks. All of 
their body is used, none going to waste. But now, this 
changed, fallen world would hunt us like those others 
you speak of, bringing death for sport and pleasure. 
Please, great spirit, I beg your aid so that I might con-
tinue to teach these ways to others, and the ones I 
140    >> BREATH OF THE WILD  <<
===== PDF PAGE IDX 141 =====
teach to teach their youth.” Wolf calibrated is tone 
carefully, keeping it strong without crossing into ar -
rogance. Weakness may get all of them killed by the 
wild spirits here, before the windmares and the wind-
stallion got to them. And death might have been a 
blessing compared to what some of these wild spirits 
were said to be able to do.
The skull looked the group over, somehow mak -
ing its skull mouth frown at the snowmobiles. It then 
shrugged. “If my cousins wish you, why should I stop 
them? You have no hold over me, I am not some 
mere tiny spirit to be summoned and commanded, 
even if you try to twist your orders into questions.”
Wolf slowly reached into some pouches in his 
belt. “I bring offerings, freely given. I can provide 
candied maple syrup from the French lands to the 
east. Or bear pemmican with blueberries and honey 
from a reclaimed and re-greened valley. Cane sug-
ar harvested by my own hand, grown far beyond its 
native lands on farms that use special waters and 
no soil.” He offered each in turn as he pulled out 
Québec maple cookies, preserved meat and dried 
berries coated in honey to make them last longer 
from Blezard Valley, and plain sugar cane stolen 
from one of the many Saeder-Krupp hydropon-
ics facilities situated around the city of Winnipeg, 
feeding the various soft drink factories and canner -
ies in that same area.
The spirit pawed at the items, which were laid 
down carefully in front of it as the fire sputtered. Rath-
er than go out, however, it spat for a few seconds, 
then erupted into an even more powerful flame in a 
color that defied description, fueled by something 
beneath the dirt and behind the air, something more 
elemental than the elements. Wolf didn’t jerk back, 
but his companions did, wondering if they’d survive 
to see the coming threats, and if they had blundered 
from the frying pan into the very oddly colored fire. 
The storm was coming, visible now, slowly moving 
forward like a huge wave of wind and snow. The 
windmares were now visible to the naked eye, horses 
made of rapid, chill winds and bad omens. The herd 
had been let loose upon the former prairie provinces 
and states during the Great Ghost Dance, and Hal-
ley’s Comet had multiplyied their numbers. At their 
head wasn’t a windstallion, larger and meaner than 
the windmares, but a beast of blood-red snow and 
rage—a windmustang. Mares and stallions were 
deadly but generally indifferent to the people they 
ran through. Windmustangs, though, actively hunted, 
seeking new blood to shed and new souls to devour. 
They were creatures constructed from nightmares, 
dread and fear given form if not flesh. A living night-
mare that existed only to kill.
“Have you any more of this, the cane sugar?” the 
summoned spirit asked. It attempted to hide the in-
terest, but it was too apparent in motion and voice. 
This was a new thing to it, something different after 
millennia of similarity.
“Two more pieces, about the same size.” Wolf an-
swered quickly, his skin not quite turning pale only 
due to the leathery nature of it. It had been too tanned 
for too many years to lose any color. The weathered 
nature was intrinsic. He quickly brought out the last 
two items in his offering pouch and hoped it would 
be enough.
“Cuddle in your shelter, then. None shall enter 
while I watch it.” The spirit’s words carried the force 
of an order, and it violently ripped the stalks of sugar-
cane out of Wolf’s hand. The four metahumans hap-
pily dove into the little snow hut. Wolf went in last, 
offering a nod of thanks to the spirit that now tow -
ered over all the area. He barely got his windproof 
outer coat off to act as a door for the entrance when 
the horse-like screaming winds started. Each form 
inside the quinzhee shuddered and collapsed inside 
themselves, trying to make as small a target as pos-
sible, but it was unnecessary. The windmares were 
unable to get in, just as the spirit promised, and a sigh 
of relief came from all as Wolf started to bandage his 
arm. All that would attack them this night was the 
sound of the wind and the cold around it. That was 
bad enough, but not life threatening.
“Last time I let myself run out of tobacco, sweet-
grass, cedar, and sage,” Wolf grumbled, shifting his 
remaining outfit to get warm and comfortable. He 
soon drifted off into a dreamless sleep.
Above the little shelter, the spirit sat upon the hut 
lightly, legs astride the entrance. Somehow the ani-
mal skull smiled and slowly chewed. The traditional 
offerings were good, indeed, and maple syrup was 
an old-remembered treat, but this new thing, this 
cane sugar was far, far more suited to its personal 
tastes indeed. It might be time to move beyond the 
trees that had long bound its entire existence, and 
see what these tiny creatures had been doing in this 
world. And discover where this cane sugar could be 
found in abundance.
>> BREATH OF THE WILD  <<    141
===== PDF PAGE IDX 142 =====
POSTED BY: ELIJAH
UNIVERSAL  
MAGIC THEORY
The single most influential publication of the 
past twenty years in the magical community, is 
undoubtedly Unified Magical Theory: The build-
ing blocks of magic and the applications therein, 
a paper published first in the Thaumaturgia Uni-
versalis, then given wide distribution via the Thel-
luric Quarterly. Introduced in Prague in 2060, it 
exploded in the wake of Halley’s Comet and the 
magical effects that spiraled from that event. By 
2070, it had become the leading magical theory 
in the world, transforming how magic was per -
formed across all traditions, though some were 
slower to adopt its methodology than others. 
> We often talk about how it rewrote the books for hermetics, 
moving them from an understanding of elementalism to 
one where more natural spirits were called forth, most 
impressively with the calling of spirits of man, formally an 
action exclusive to shamanic traditions. More interesting, 
I feel, is the ripple effect in the shamanic community, 
leaving behind the old ways of whistling up local spirits 
for bringing in those less bound by rules of location. 
> Winterhawk
 > Not all of us walked this new path.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> The biggest change was the acceptance in corporate 
circles, I think. Previously, shamans were a rare thing 
in the megas, who preferred hermetics, while shamans 
took to the treeline or the streets. UMT made shamans … 
presentable. They weren’t beholden to some unknowable 
entity, like some totem or another, but instead, it was 
simply how they shaped magic. Without that wedge, the 
corporations found that they could work with shamans, 
treating their … eccentricities … as they would a hot 
young decker. Suddenly, shamans were hip, cool, and 
socially acceptable. 
> Sunshine
> It went further than that! Corporations started establishing 
“house styles, ” trying to direct young shamans to follow 
… well, they used to be called totems, but they were 
re-branded as “mentors” to sand the mysticism off the 
term. At any rate, they wanted them to follow corporate-
approved mentors, like Fire-Bringer or Cat, rather than a 
more disruptive element like Bull or, Ghost save us all, 
Coyote.
> /dev/grrl
> As word got around, and former street shamans started 
popping up with shiny new SINS, a corporate ID, and a 
support network, the shadows were hit hard. We’d taken 
the basic “us vs. them” divide as simply a Thing that 
would always be there, a dividing line that meant that 
we’d always have magical parity with the megas. I wasn’t 
surprised that money talked, but I was disappointed. We 
were supposed to be better than that.
> Bull
Universal Magic Theory, at its core, is simply 
this: All magic draws from the same source; it’s 
how the individual magician shapes it that defines 
their tradition. Ultimately, a spirit is a spirit is a spir-
it. There are levels of complexity beyond this, of 
course, and I can show you terapulses of debates 
about the true nature of spirits, but that simple the-
ory is the core. It’s important to note, here, that it’s 
a theory, not a law. 
> Wait. It’s just a theory? Who cares then?! It’s just a guess.
> Slamm-0!
> How I weep for the eradication of our education system. 
Right, in science, there are three levels of thought: A law, 
which is a proposal that has stood against every challenge 
and has reached a point where the scientific community 
FORBIDDEN ARCANA
WHERE THE  
WILD THINGS ARE
142    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>

===== PDF PAGE IDX 143 =====
decides that it is a true thing and names it law; a theory, 
which is a leading thought about how something works 
but is still being tested in an attempt to disprove it; and 
a hypothesis, which is an idea someone has about why 
something happens but that has yet to be rigorously 
tested. When the layman says “I have a theory” , they really 
mean that they have a hypothesis, or even just a guess, 
which is not at all the same thing as when we say it.
> Beaker
> Then why do we say “theory”? 
> Riot
> Because “hypothesis” is a big word that’s hard to 
pronounce and harder to spell. 
> The Smiling Bandit
> Hey-oh.
> Slamm-0!
If you check the backlog in the magical discus-
sion areas, you’ll see that I’ve been one of the lead-
ing proponents of UMT here on JackPoint, and I’ve 
battled in academic circles as well. I’d show you a 
series of messages that the Atlantean Foundation 
and I have bounced back and forth for years, but 
it’s a tad dry for these parts. My quandary is that, 
over the past ten years, I’ve found too many areas 
where the accepted dogma wasn’t able to explain 
what I was experiencing. I’d always assumed that 
a solution to this would be found, but in my quest-
ing for answers, I’ve only found more questions. 
At this stage, I’m prepared to say this: I think that 
Unified Magic Theory is wrong.
> Will someone check my DocWagon monitor? I believe that 
I might have just died.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> OMG MOMN just made a joke
> /dev/grrl
> I’ve made several. I’m not to blame for your lack of 
comprehension.
> Man-of-Many-Names
That is to say, I believe that the core concept is 
still sound, but that there are, in fact, more sourc-
es of magic UMT accounts for. Perhaps this can 
explain the anomalies. It’s still far too early in my 
research to publish, and I’m loathe to share even 
these early thoughts here, but I had a very close 
encounter near the Rio Grande, and had I not sur-
vived, all of these notes would be lost. As such, 
I’m uploading some notes into a virtual locker 
here, with Glitch’s permission, with some standard 
deadman clauses. This isn’t the entirety of my jour-
nal, but it contains those thoughts that I’m confi-
dent enough in that they won’t risk my reputation. 
I’ll share of them here now, since I’m certain that 
several of you will try to crack the code just to sat-
isfy your own curiosity.
> I would advise against it. Strongly.
> Glitch
WHERE DOES  
MAGIC COME FROM?
It sounds like a basic question, doesn’t it? Many 
would say “It doesn’t come from anything. It’s 
magic. It just is.” But that isn’t enough for myself or 
for many other researchers in the magical fields. 
Magic follows rules, rules that we might not yet 
understand or even known of, but it follows them 
all the same. Magic cannot return the dead to life. 
Magic cannot teleport matter, or energy, from one 
location to another instantaneously. Magic can-
not break time. We have tried to break all of those 
rules, and in some instances have gotten some-
what close, but in each case it was bending, not 
breaking, those rules. Cybermancy can’t return 
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    143

===== PDF PAGE IDX 144 =====
the dead to life, but it can keep those who should 
be dead from leaving their body behind. Several 
magics can animate a dead body to movement 
like a marionette, while replacing the body’s spirit 
with another is the core underpinning of insect 
shamans. Shedim follow a path between those 
two options. We watched magical transporta-
tion whisking Aztechnology employees away 
from Ghostwalker’s claws in Denver at a speed 
so great as to resemble teleportation but that, we 
later learned, was not, and seems to have been so 
costly as to squelch any desire to repeat it. Was 
it calling in a spirit’s aid? Some long-bound mag-
ic that could only be triggered once? Like blood 
magic, did the effect draw some life energy from 
the caster, but in such high levels that it’s simply 
unreproducible? As with much dragon magic, we 
don’t know, but we do know that it wasn’t tele-
portation. Magic follows rules.
One leading indicator of this is an examina-
tion of energy conservation. This flies in the face 
of many people’s understanding of magic, since a 
magician is clearly forming, for example, a fireball 
out of thin air and unleashing it on a target with 
explosive results. Clearly, they just created energy. 
Those who study magical science, however, will 
tell you otherwise. That energy was gathered up, 
shaped by the caster’s will and Art, and given exis-
tence as a ball of fire, true, but that energy was not 
generated within the mage’s heart or mind but, in-
stead, was drawn from an outside source—in this 
case, the ambient astral energy that surrounds us 
all. Astral energy permeates the world, generated 
by living creatures, be they plant, insect, animal, 
or human. It connects us all to one another, and 
we leave traces of this energy in our wake just as 
we leave flakes of skin and hair behind. This ener -
gy even imprints on non-living objects, and when 
you take up, for example, your grandfather’s har -
monica, his astral signature is wound through it, 
and even the mundanes of the world can feel that 
connection, the echo of the owner’s energy and 
being.
> Seriously? Crystal-waving? I came here for science and I 
get New Age dogma? Pathetic.
> Clockwork
> This from someone who talks to his cars? Come on, 
Clocks, hold your venom until he’s done. I mean, what do 
you think astrally aware people are talking about when 
they read an object? They’re sniffing out those echoes 
that the person who touched the thing left behind, sifting 
through however many astral signatures have brushed 
over it, tracking down the strongest, and trying to identify 
them. It’s not far removed from smelling something in the 
kitchen and knowing it’s spaghetti instead of onion soup. 
The Aware who focus on this area can read emotional 
states and even assemble strong thoughts that were felt 
while the object was held, learning information about 
the previous owner. This is established science and Lone 
Star’s been at the leading edge of object reading for 
decades. Drek, there’s probably a whole evidence locker 
of things you’ve left behind, from shell casings to dropped 
change from your pocket, that someone’s assembled to 
make a case study of you.
> Hard Exit
> Thank you for stepping up for the defense of my secondary 
application, HE. 
> Arete
> That said, there are plenty of fakes out there, or those 
with some Talent who aren’t anywhere near as good as 
they claim. It’s a basic scam, and you prey mostly on the 
vulnerable whose kids have run away or who recently lost 
a loved one. But at the end of the day, it pays the bills, so 
people fall into it.
> Lyran
Several ancient cultures tell similar stories, such 
as the Sioux Sacred Circles or Japanese Shinto, as 
well as more modern versions such as the Jedi in 
England who talk about an energy that connects 
everyone together. (Happy one hundredth an-
niversary to you lot!) Religions talk of souls and 
where we go after we die, as well as where those 
souls come from. We look to the stars, we look 
within ourselves, and we turn to holy books, all 
in the search of answers. I won’t pretend that I 
know everything (as Man-of-Many-Names is oh 
so happy to remind me of on a regular basis!), but 
I can draw enough from the similarities in these 
beliefs, and what we know after nearly seventy 
years of thaumaturgical research, to know that 
the manasphere is constantly refilled by living 
creatures, and that it’s the source of much of our 
magic. The question of why this happens has yet 
been approached with any serious inquiry (due to 
the lack of marketability philosophy has compared 
to the practical application of spell research, one 
would assume) or precisely how, but enough is 
known that we take it not unlike gravity or mag-
netism, forces that function even if we have yet to 
unlock all the secrets that drive them.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
144    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 145 =====
> Fraggin’ magnets. How do they work, anyway?
> Glowin’ Jugs
> Fred, what have we told you about sockpuppet accounts?
> Glitch
> Uh. Actually, it was me. Old joke.
> Bull
> Similar to the modern Matrix and the Foundation. You 
know that it works, but not how, but it’s good enough to 
harness, so you’re off and running while a few eggheads 
keep picking at it in the background.
> Turbo Bunny
> You honestly think that They don’t know? They do, they 
just aren’t telling you. 
> Plan 9
> For once, I have to agree with Plan 9. 
> Icarus
> Who’re “they”?!
> Riot
Of further note is that mana pools in areas, or 
travels in a sort of astral stream. These are power 
sites and ley lines, respectively, and they come in 
both pure forms and aspected. Pure forms are ex-
actly what they sound like and are far more rare 
than you might imagine, while aspected mana is 
attuned to a particular style of magic. The drag-
on lines around the Ring of Fire, for instance, or 
the Ley Lines (note that capitalization, since these 
ones are special) across Tír na nÓg or Great Britain 
are two well-known examples, while toxic dumps 
are another. The more rare ones are permanent, 
a source of renewable magical power that people 
are willing to struggle, fight, or even kill over, while 
temporary ones form and vanish on a regular ba-
sis based on a great number of factors including, 
but not limited to, unified thinking, emotional re-
sponse, pollution, trauma, and sudden additions 
of energy, be they magical or otherwise. Rock 
concerts are famous for it, but the scene of a bru-
tal murder, a joyous marriage, or an area often 
struck by lightning can be equally powered up for 
a time. A smaller level of any of the above, over an 
extended time, can also generate power sites, or 
aspect the overall mana generated from an area. 
You’ll find this in Redmond and similar areas where 
the daily grind of life colors the astral space in pain 
and frustration, or in high schools where the con-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    145
===== PDF PAGE IDX 146 =====
stant turmoil of being a teenager creates an intox-
icating blend of emotional resonance even if no 
individual moment stands out. 
> Um. Wizards get high sniffing locker rooms? Ew?
> /dev/grrl
> Less wizards (other than Haze) and more spirits. Spirits 
flock to this kind of energy source and seem to feed off it.
> Glasswalker
> I don’t know if that’s less creepy or more creepy.
> /dev/grrl
Mana is also created by natural life. A wooded 
area is filled with pants, trees, and small animals, 
each of which generates small levels of mana 
with each breath they take. It’s interesting in that 
some areas that are protected will have a sense 
of peace and tranquility that permeates them, but 
areas set aside for hunting will have a reduced 
peacefulness to them while the fear and pain 
of hunted animals will permeate the astral, right 
alongside the more powerful feelings of joy and 
conquest that the hunters generate. These areas 
are stronger in the right seasons, of course, but 
never fully vanish. Mating season also fills these 
areas with a sense of lust. The research is as yet 
unsettled if this is why lovestruck teens flock to 
these areas to explore, or if those explorations 
simply further color the air. 
> So, how does somebody sign up for this research? Asking 
for a friend.
> Slamm-0!
> One of the largest sources of ambient astral energy is the 
ocean. It’s positively teeming with life, from whales and 
sharks to fish and seaweed to plankton and bacteria. I’ve 
taken a few mages out from the city for the first time and 
every one of them, without fail, will take a few hours to sit 
on the edge of the boat, switch to seeing the astral, and 
will just …. marvel. Wish I could see it myself.
> Sounder
> Tempo’s long gone, but deepweed can do the job in a 
pinch. Drop me a line, I’ll hook you up.
> Lyran
The last notation about this is that these sourc-
es of mana, no matter if they have a positive or 
negative flavor, can carry over into nearby objects. 
Living things, like plants and trees, are the best for 
soaking it up, but crystalline forms and minerals 
are right behind and, in some cases, even better, 
at doing so. This is the foundation of reagents 
and, from them, assorted talismans and fetish-
es. It’s easier to find raw materials that you can 
then adapt to your particular style, but you’d be 
surprised by what you can gather from finished 
goods that were exposed in the right way. Spent 
bullet casings (growing quite rare with caseless 
rounds being the norm) sometimes catch a whiff 
of violence, while some concert T-shirts start off 
bland corporate merch before a show but soak up 
so much crowd energy that they glow on the As-
tral for a few days and retain a trace of the event 
for a decade. 
We’re still uncertain as to how the exact mech-
anism works, but in general an item focused on, 
like the statue of a saint visited for centuries, a sac-
rificial altar stained by the blood of hundreds, or 
the ratty old guitar a star’s used starting when they 
were an unknown burger flipper at McHugh’s, are 
all more likely to gather this energy and will hold 
more of it, but it doesn’t always work. Several cor-
porations have experimented with creating focal 
objects in this way, without any result, while a 
crayon drawing a datapusher’s kid gave him before 
work winds up bubbling over with power. There’s 
even some experimentation with people serving 
as magical focus points, such as the lead singer 
of a band, a heroic police officer whose story is 
distributed nationwide, or even a corporate CEO, 
with an effort to gather magical energies around 
them, but we’re still in the very early days of ob-
servation and experimentation. The entire field 
remains esoteric.
> The leading fonts of knowledge in this area are 
Aztechnology and Wuxing, as you’d imagine, plus 
Renraku, who’re known for anemic levels of magical 
research. Strange that they’d focus on this side of things.
> Axis Mundi
> Mitsuhama has a weird view of it all. They’re the largest 
producer of magical goods and telesma, but their 
environmental policies are horrible, and they tend to 
devour an area rather than nurture it as a sustainable 
resource. They like to quash research that shows pollution 
is bad or anything that shows magic is generated by 
natural areas. You can make a whole MCT -subsidized 
career just debunking those theories on public trideo or in 
book deals, if you can stomach it. Whatever research they 
have about this angle, they never publish; it’s in-house use 
only. Needless to say, there’re tons of run opportunities 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
146    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 147 =====
that fall out of everything I just said. In fact, I have open 
contracts right now. Call me.
> Am-Mut
> Hey, while we’re doing business in here, I should say that 
ever since Hestaby got kicked out of Shasta, there’s been 
a surge of talismongers and shadowrunners sweeping 
into the area to gather up resources. While she’s gone 
and her shamans were wiped out, there are still loads of 
magical defenses in place that have keep anyone from 
moving in to claim the area. California and Tír Taingire are 
both daring one another to make the first move, while 
Mitsuhama is still smarting from the bad press that came 
out of the Vegas protests and is operating via hired runners 
rather than just unloading corporate-branded soldiers 
everywhere. The stiff defenses shouldn’t have been a 
surprise, but there’ve been several ‘mongers who never 
came back, and it’s chilled the moves from the smaller 
operators. You hire bodyguards or don’t go. There’s also a 
huge market for people who will claim that some reagent 
is fresh and smuggled out of Shasta, touched by a dragon, 
blah blah blah. It’s just a scam to gouge money out of a 
mark, but if you sell it right, they’ll shell out top nuyen for 
average junk.
> Lyran
> Well that explains your papering the Hiring Hall with guide 
requests last year. Sorry I couldn’t help you out but—you 
know how it goes. Did you have any luck?
> 2XL
> As a matter of fact, yes. Most of them were the usual 
thing—flowers here, roots there, some crystals and lake 
water—but all of it was hyper-pure and unaspected. 
Anyone could use them, and they were strong. I even 
got a few things from right at the entrance to her lair, and 
they’re dripping with juice. Anyone interested, I’ll cut you 
a deal.
> Lyran
> Do tell.
> Orange Queen
> … eep
> Lyran
> USER L YRAN HAS DISCONNECTED
WHERE DOES MAGIC GO?
A question more rarely asked than where mag-
ic comes from is this: Where does magic go? If 
it’s constantly generated by living things, and we 
couldn’t access it until the Awakening, where did 
it all go before today? Some of it seeped into the 
ground, the Earth itself being a kind of living thing 
as anyone who can astrally project will tell you, 
where it pooled into hidden reserves of magic. 
It’s theorized that these areas were where drag-
ons hibernated during the downcycle. As you 
might guess, the main proponents of this theo-
ry are those who believe that magic comes and 
goes in cycles and that dragons were alive in the 
past, possibly carved out and channeled for that 
exact purpose for centuries, to provide a cocoon 
of mana that would keep them alive when mag-
ic, as a whole, vanished. There are problems with 
those theories, but the largest is this: If energy 
cannot be created or destroyed, magic couldn’t 
vanish. It had to go somewhere, and those small 
lairs wouldn’t be enough to drain ten thousand 
years of planetary production. The leading theory 
at this time is that the astral plane and the mate-
rial world are not perfectly synchronized and, like 
the sun, moon, and Earth, interact in an eclipse-
like fashion. That is, when they’re aligned, energy 
flows between them, but when they separate, the 
energy spills into the astral but doesn’t spill back 
out, cutting off our ability to harness it. This en-
ergy would generate the metaplanes, shaped by 
the thoughts of humanity like a dream. There are 
numerous problems with this mindset, and schol-
ars produce gigapulses of papers arguing and 
exploring every year. The interactions of Halley’s 
Comet with our manasphere multiplied these pa-
pers a hundredfold, and the writings about the 
magical transformations under and around Los 
Angeles still come hot and heavy. How does a 
city above sea level, on a tectonic plate moving 
north, east, and upwards due to forcing against a 
stationary plate, wind up flooded after an earth-
quake and with spiderwebs of caverns where it 
used to be solid rock? If you look at GPS coor -
dinates, the city’s actually higher than it used to 
be by over sixty centimeters, yet many areas are 
flooded even today despite being higher than sea 
level. It’s a magical effect that’s broken here or 
there but, in general, the mindset that LA would 
“fall into the sea” happened despite being scien-
tifically impossible. 
> Hang on. Is that true?
> Dr. Spin.
> Weirdly? Yes. The effect is magical in origin, and if you have 
someone with exceptional astral vision they can even see 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    147
===== PDF PAGE IDX 148 =====
the aura, which is spread over the city in a convex shape, 
like a contact lens. The deepest water is at the center while 
the edges are shallow. If this worked like normal water, a 
universal depth would be established or, in this case, it 
would all drain back into the ocean where it belongs. I’m 
told that the effect is weakening since the Comet left, and 
some water has drained back as the effect cracks. Don’t 
get me started on the caverns.
> Snopes
> The Lacuna is a gateway to the realm of Earth, where 
spirits cross over into our world. They’re mostly interested 
in pottery and the Walk of Fame.
> Plan 9
Which brings us to nana ebbs and voids. These 
are areas that are lacking in magic, such as in 
space, where there is a weak or non-existent 
manasphere, but it also covers a more uncommon 
situation where magic bleeds from the astral to 
somewhere else. You’re familiar with a handful of 
these, but the one that stands out is Crater Lake in 
Tír Taingire. At one point in time, it was a simple 
lake, but on May 2, 2054, it changed. Mana be-
gan to bubble out of it in great volume, famously 
floating some of the local landscape around it like 
some music album cover from a century ago. Tír 
elves went into lockdown mode, going so far as to 
blind satellites that flew overhead while allowing 
no one to enter or leave the area. It’s hard to know 
exactly what happened here, as the information 
was hard to access in the first place and what lit-
tle got out was lost in the second Crash, but some 
extrapolations do still exist. The most interesting 
of those, in my opinion, was a spike in Awakened 
births for several years, with a high number of 
elves and dwarves being born no matter the race 
of the parent. (And if you think it’s odd for an elf 
to be born to human parents in the UCAS, it’s even 
stranger when orks are birthing elves in the Tír!). 
Additionally, those born in that period have shown 
to be both more likely to have the Talent and to 
be stronger in magical arts than those born in oth-
er times. This resulted in a rate of nearly fourteen 
children out of a thousand being magically active, 
a number that seems small to you but for those 
who study such things is an impressive spike. 
Soon after President Dunkelzahn’s assassi-
nation, we became aware that the situation at 
the lake had changed. Word slipped out that the 
flow of magic from Crater Lake had stopped, 
then reversed course, turning it into a mana ebb. 
The lockdown, which had loosened somewhat, 
snapped tightly together again, starting a whole 
new round of rumors. The investigation by the Tír 
government focused on Teseteoinestea, or Wizard 
Island as it used to be known, a small island inside 
the crater itself. 
> Shadowland was brutal in May and April of ’54. Tír deckers 
were working their collective asses off to track down and 
quash any scrap of information that had slipped out, while 
talking heads were on trideo urging everyone to remain 
calm and assure us that nothing unusual was happening. 
It was two months of hell, but if you were brave, you could 
make some serious nuyen by sticking your nose where it 
didn’t belong. As other things caught the public eye, pay 
fell off, and fewer people went for it. By the time we finally 
got easy access, it was scarcely remembered. Shame.
> Bull
> First I’ve ever heard of the place.
> Riot
> Back in ’71, footage of a small group of sleepwalkers 
advancing on the military cordon, refusing to stop, and 
being gunned done went viral on the Matrix. The Princes 
went into denial for a while, but eventually public pressure 
became too strong and they talked about “altering 
procedures” and quietly replaced some personnel that 
were on site. If there have been any more incidents, I’ve 
not heard of them, but the original incident was never 
explained. 
> Turbo Bunny
> Everyone looks for magical reasons for that, but from what 
I hear, the only thing that they all had in common was that 
they’d attended a job training siminar together. And who 
hosted it? A group known as Collective Solutions who, 
though hidden under six levels of ownership, is ultimately 
a Horizon branch. Coincidence?
> Plan 9
Since then, Crater Lake has served as a mana 
ebb, gradually draining magic from the area. It 
started small, with spirits being uncomfortable 
there and wanting to leave or magic being more 
draining to call upon, but eventually it got so bad 
that spirits couldn’t be formed and spells simply 
fizzled. Mages who opened themselves to the as-
tral were nearly sucked out of their bodies by the 
area being so hungry for magical energy, and at 
least two didn’t survive the exposure. The High 
Council insists on keeping any information gath-
ered there tightly clutched to their chest and have 
turned away multiple requests by the Draco Foun-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
148    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 149 =====
dation to help. Hestaby was a leading voice in 
getting outside aid, but High Prince Zincan was as 
intractable on the matter as the first High Prince. 
Since she lost her seat on the council, I’m uncertain 
if anyone has brought the matter to High Prince 
Telestrian. The leading theory, based on what lit-
tle we know, is that magic is being sucked through 
the lake, removed from here and put somewhere 
else; we just haven’t been able to solve the ques-
tion of where it’s going. 
More worrisome is the data that has been 
slowly rolling from the study, information that’s 
given directly to the Council of Princes, bypass-
ing the Star Chamber entirely. The ebb has been 
growing. It’s still contained inside the crater itself, 
but it’s gradually filling the space and, should it 
reach the rim, they’re uncertain if it will spill over 
like some kind of astral lava or if it will continue to 
expand upwards like some kind of mana vortex. 
As it’s grown larger, it’s been pulling more magic 
into it. How much, you ask? We can’t measure that 
yet, but we can measure the effects. The birthrate 
of magicians has dropped over the past decade 
and a half, and in 2076 (the last year for which I’ve 
gotten hard data), it was down to nine out of one 
thousand. Tellingly, if you combine birthrates with 
birthplaces, you’ll see that areas furthest away 
from the lake continue at the traditional TT rate 
of twelve out of one thousand, with the number 
shrinking as you grow closer to the ebb. Those 
born within ten miles are showing a rate of only 
six out of one thousand, while there’s only a sin-
gle recorded birth of a magician within a kilome-
ter. More worrisome is that the national birthrate 
of elves has been falling. Both elves and dwarves 
are being born at a rate below UCAS standard by 
a noticeable degree, and it may be affecting orks 
and trolls as well. Human birthrates are higher, as 
well as “revision births,” where metahuman par -
ents give birth to ordinary human children. Again, 
plotting births with nearness to the ebb points to it 
being the reason for this, with more humans born 
close to it while meta births are at the standard 
Tír rates once you’ve gone thirty kilometers miles 
from there. As you might imagine, this is a source 
of quiet concern atop the nation, but that infor -
mation has yet to be shared with the populace at 
large.
> I’m quite curious as to how you saw those conclusions.
> Frosty
> If demand for data exists, that demand will be met. The 
supply defines the cost, of course.
> Icarus
WILD SPIRITS
Which came first, the chicken or the egg? There 
are two general answers to this. The first is, “The 
chicken, as God made all living things.” The sec-
ond is, “The egg, which existed in birds before the 
chicken, as well as reptiles, amphibians, and so 
on.” You can break this down with quoted pas-
sages and rough dates, but those two answers 
sum up most answers fairly well. When it comes 
to magical creatures, you face a similar question: 
Have we always described the unicorn as they 
now look, due to remembering how they were 
when they existed in the past, or have they taken 
the shape that they have in response to our belief 
that this is how they should look?
> Third answer. I dunno. Who cares?
> Slamm-0!
> Wait. “When they existed in the past”? What?
> Riot
> Oh yes—we haven’t gone into history, have we, kiddo? 
The theory is that magic is a cycle, rising and falling in 
ages that are around ten thousand years in duration. If 
that theory’s true, then there used to be unicorns and 
dragons and whatever, but they went away when magic 
did. If you believe that. Which I don’t.
> Butch
> I’d be happy to educate both yourself and your apprentice, 
Butch. The two of you should come by the magic 
discussion area later. We’ll chat.
> Winterhawk
I tend to find evidence in the latter, person-
ally, and it’s reflected in a few areas, such as the 
varied appearance of any particular dragon when 
comparing images taken of them over the years, 
as well as the general understanding that comes 
from aspecting mana lines. Mana, in a raw form, 
can be shaped and “flavored” by those who can 
use magical energies. If these magics can thus be 
“cooked,” then it stands to reason that they can 
resonate with our thoughts. If magic is a reflec-
tion of us, then by simple extension, it becomes 
what we wish it to be. As such, a magical being is a 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    149
===== PDF PAGE IDX 150 =====
formless, shapeless void until we will it into being, 
binding it down as a concept with a name and a 
shape—an essence, if you will.
> Heading this one off at the pass. Philosophical debate 
goes elsewhere. Focus on the data.
> Glitch
> Coyote cares not how you wish him to look.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> What did I just say?
> Glitch
The reason that I bring this up at all is due to 
the re-emergence of wild spirits. They’ve been 
around, in some capacity or another, since the re-
turn of magic but they have had periods of great-
er or less commonality. The most telling was that 
most seemingly vanished in the mid-’60s. The ex-
act reasons for this are much debated, but the fact 
that they began to disappear as Halley’s Comet 
drew near is, in my opinion, important. The comet 
disrupted mana lines across the planet, with the 
dragon lines along the Ring of Fire particularly 
hard hit. They might have gone dormant at this 
time, to wait out the manastorms, or due to one of 
the general upheavals of the decade. It happened 
to coincide with the publication of UMT, which 
is when both hermetic spellcasters and shamans 
changed their summoning methods. Mages found 
themselves summoning more strong-willed spir -
its, smarter and more capable than before, while 
shamans stepped away from calling for wild spirits 
and, instead, gathered a less-flavorful, but also un-
tethered, spiritual type.
> Not all of us followed the new way.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> Untethered? What’s that supposed to mean?
> Lyran
> There used to be a thing where spirits couldn’t cross 
certain boundaries. Somebody sics a forest spirit on you, 
you could run for the edge of the woods and, if you made 
it out, they couldn’t chase you. Saved my hoop more 
than once, but one day that just … stopped working. Huh. 
Never really thought about it.
> Bull
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
150    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 151 =====
> Hey yeah! Mom used to talk about that! Her team had 
a rat shaman that could whistle up spirits, but he had to 
call up new ones each time they moved around from the 
sewers to the streets, to inside a guy’s house, whatever. 
The only magician I ever saw as a kid was a hermetic, and 
his spirits went anywhere that he wanted.
> Slamm-0!
> What happened to your mom’s rat-friend?
> Netcat
> Lone Star. He jumped off a roof rather than be taken in. He 
knew what they do to mages in lockup.
> Slamm-0!
Whatever the Yellowstone Incident was, it’s 
woken these spirits back up in a big way. Where 
there were only a few, and even then only found 
in rich magical areas like the Mojave Crater, the 
number out in Pueblo country has exploded. As 
the aftershocks of the Incident continue to move 
around, more effects seem to activate in a range 
of locations. We haven’t yet found a pattern to it, 
we don’t know why it happens, we don’t know 
how it happens, but we can see the uptick in every 
area that it passes through. Once it’s moved on, 
the spirits remain active, and if it visits again, even 
more are found.
> Interesting exception: Salt Lake City hasn’t had a single 
spirit awake there, despite three visitations.
> Stone
> Well now that’s interesting.
> Frosty
NATURE SPIRITS
All the information out there is nearly twenty 
years old at this stage, and the second Crash was 
unkind to much of it. As such, I’ve assembled a 
small primer for you on the matter of domains, 
with a discussion to follow.
DOMAINS
A wild spirit is tethered to the land, in some ways 
a reflection of the magical potential to be found 
therein, a “living avatar,” for lack of a better term, 
for the local manafield. Again, there is discussion 
about whether the reflection of the land creates 
the spirit, or if the spirit creates the reflection in 
the land (for example, is it the psychic scar of a vi-
cious murder that creates a terrifying spirit there, 
or did the spirit’s presence drive someone to 
murder?) but the more important aspect for you 
to remember is that the spirit’s reach is only as far 
as the manafield itself. We call this a domain, and 
it defines the boundaries of a wild spirit’s pow -
er. Within this area, it is more powerful than you 
would think, able to draw upon the environment 
itself, but only the strongest can leave their do-
main, and even those find their power diminished 
greatly in the process. In most cases, the spirit 
stops where its domain does.
> Not unlike the vampire myths of old. A vampire is 
powerless to harm you unless invited across the threshold 
of your home.
> Winterhawk
> Or the Nightmarchers, Hawai’ian spirits who cannot harm 
you if you lie face-down on the ground, humbling yourself 
before them.
> Sounder
> Or the monsters that hide under your bed. If you pull the 
sheets over your head, you’re safe. Sprout-0! knows this 
well.
> Slamm-0!
> I’m going to cry when he stops doing that.
> Netcat
> Oh, Winterhawk, about that …
> Red
There are four general domains, with the Land, 
the Waters, and the Winds being fairly obvious, 
while the domains of Man are somewhat fuzzier. 
Interestingly, while there are numerous wild spir -
its of beasts, they never have a domain; they, and 
they alone, may travel where they wish, but as a 
consequence, they lack the power that other wild 
spirits can draw from.
SPIRITS OF THE LAND
There are four segments to the domain of Land, 
and a wild spirit of the Land will be tied to one, 
and only one, of them. These segments are the 
desert, the forest, the mountain, and the prairie. 
A spirit of the forest cannot enter the prairie or 
the desert, despite being of the Land, for exam-
ple, nor may the forest be entered by the others. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    151
===== PDF PAGE IDX 152 =====
While to metahuman eyes there would seem to 
be areas that merge the environments or that 
have aspects of each (for instance, heavily wood-
ed hills that blend into low mountains), the spirits 
know precisely where their domain begins and 
ends, and what boundaries they cannot cross.
> Cannot, or will not?
> Aethernaut
> Yes.
> Man-of-Many-Names
Desert spirits have a varied appearance, based 
on the land in which they’re born (a rule that runs 
true in all landed spirits, really). The traditional san-
dy deserts produce small dust devils in most loca-
tions but, on occasion, they form as small rivulets 
running beneath the sand, unseen save the wake 
of their movement. Those in rockier areas take the 
form of, well, rocks, or flash about as echoes, fig-
ures seen from the corner of your perception, or 
simply eyes peeking out from shadowy areas. They 
tend to wait for you to make the first move—always 
near, always watching, but simply waiting. It’s up to 
you to prove that you’re worthy of anything beyond 
them allowing you to die beneath the sun.
Spirits of the forest are often attended by beast 
spirits (see later in this upload), which has created 
some level of confusion in the layman, but once 
you’ve seen one in person, you’ll know. They’re 
formed of the woods themselves, taking the 
form of trees, entwined greenery, or, a personal 
favorite, a vaguely metahuman-shaped mound 
of earth, covered in grass and flowers. They tend 
to be somewhat friendlier if someone’s been re-
spectful of the area and the life within it, but they 
have a terrible wrath for those who despoil it.
> In Germany, they often appear as wicker stags.
> Lyran
Mountain spirits are, to a one, old. Old old old. 
Few bother taking a material form, instead letting 
their basic presence settle heavily over an area; 
even the mundane can feel it in their presence, 
a true weight bearing down on them without re-
morse. When they do deign to take a physical 
form, it’s a troll-sized figure of stone, striding out 
of the face of the mountain, which it will eventual-
ly return to, melding back as if it never left. Inter -
actions with them can be frustrating—not from the 
manners that they expect so much as their view 
on time. The mountain answers as it will and you 
must … wait. At least take a lunch, but a tent and 
backpack are more likely needed. (And it should 
go without saying, but leave the area as pristine 
as you found it. Mountain does not care for your 
NumNum wrappers.)
Spirits of the prairie seem to be in a state of 
flux, giving rise to certain theories of magical 
echoes drawn from the people. More primal spir -
its are little more than the wind rustling through 
the grass, cousins of the sky above. They take a 
spiraling dust-devil visage not unlike those of the 
desert, but there are reports (which I have sadly 
never seen in person) of them taking the form of 
Amerindians or Mongols in miniature. More often, 
they simply refuse to materialize, bringing with 
them an uplifting aura of freedom and possibility, 
opposite of the mountain. Also in opposition of 
mountain, they feel young and vibrant, but they 
lack deep wisdom or any significant knowledge of 
current events. 
> What about bison spirits? Or horse?
> 2XL
> Those spirits are of the beasts, not the prairie. Like the 
spirits of the forest, it is easy to think of one as the other.
> Man-of-Many-Names
  
SPIRITS OF THE WINDS
The four segments to the domain of wind are 
the breeze, the clouds, the mist, and the storm. 
It’s interesting to note that these are winds, not 
air, and movement is innate in them one and all. 
An area becalmed most certainly has air in it, but 
wild spirits won’t be found there, nor will they 
be found in areas where the air is stagnant. It’s 
also fascinating to see that there’s a delineation 
between the domains, such as the forest or the 
mountain, which clearly have air running through 
them, yet are impossible for these spirits to en-
ter. Wind might blow through the trees, but Spir -
its of the Winds will stay just above the treeline, 
dipping into a clearing, then rise above the trees 
once more, never actually interacting with the 
“wrong” domain. 
Breeze spirits tend to be the smallest and most 
peaceful of the Winds, fond of music and playful 
with metahumans. In the astral, they often take the 
form of classical faeries to dance and swirl about 
the hair and clothing of visitors. There are older, 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
152    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 153 =====
more powerful breezes as well, found near areas 
where wind blows hard. Several urban towers, for 
instance, have stronger breeze spirits that swirl 
about the updrafts and dance in the castoff debris 
of the city that is caught in the winds, while cliff 
faces and natural rock tunnels provide homes for 
truly ancient spirits.
Cloud spirits are the most aloof spirit, as you 
might imagine, content to laze about, high in the 
sky. They rarely interact with mere mortals. They 
have great vision but retain little knowledge of 
what lies below due to a casual indifference to 
such matters. They’re far more capable of discus-
sions about aircraft and drones, however, who 
they see as invaders into their world. A cloud spirit 
can identify which drone was present beneath it 
when the sun was in a certain position, but it will 
first take the time to give you quite a lecture about 
the temerity of it to try to touch the heavens and 
how your kind should really be satisfied with the 
dirt and should leave the sky to them. Cloud spirits 
that are found near the tallest mountains tend to 
be more understanding and gregarious, but that’s 
a relative measure at best.
Mist spirits are quiet poorly understood at 
this time. After all, by scientific reasoning, a fog 
is nothing more than a low-hanging cloud, yet 
mist spirits are quite different than their high-fly -
ing cousins. Rather than be aloof, they’re quite 
curious about metahumanity. They are also shy, 
though, so they tend to creep about, ever-watch-
ing and observant but never daring to approach. 
This can be disconcerting for those who can per -
ceive the astral, and it’s given spirits of the mist 
something of a sinister reputation, associating 
them with vampires, wolves, and other harbin-
gers of disaster. In truth, spirits of the mist of-
ten possess some limited form of precognition, 
which leads them to gather to observe the event 
in question, rather than causing it. 
Storm spirits are the least common of all, creat-
ed in large numbers with any powerful storm, then 
vanishing soon after. Some magicians speculate 
that they are simply another face of cloud spir -
its, releasing pent-up anger before returning to 
normal, while others believe that they’re distinct, 
if short-lived, spirits. Cloud spirits that I’ve talked 
to consider them cousins, not brothers, so I’m in-
clined to accept the definition myself. Spirits of the 
storm are no more powerful than any other spirit 
of the wind, but they push themselves to use up 
all of their power in their brief lifespan, expending 
in an hour what a spirit of the breeze might use in 
a thousand years. Interestingly, spirits of the storm 
that spend themselves to dissipation sometimes 
return during the next storm or activity. If you find 
an area notorious for frequent storms or lightning 
activity, such as the lightning rods gracing the tall-
est skyrakers of the sprawl, you can meet the same 
spirit a dozen times in a year, or at least meet one 
who uses the name and recognizes you from pre-
vious encounters. I confess to being terribly curi-
ous about this, and intend on doing more research 
as time allows.
SPIRITS OF THE WATERS
The four segments of the spirits of water are lake, 
river, sea, and swamp, with some debate in schol-
arly circles about the variation of lake and sea in 
regards to large ponds or oceans. The general 
consensus is that rivers have a stream subset, 
lakes have pond, and that oceans are so large that 
a multitude of sea spirits share it, but, research is 
only beginning to restart on that. For now, we will 
focus on the currently understood aspects with 
notes as appropriate.
Lake spirits tend to form in a large body of water 
that’s free of commercial pollution. This is, obvious-
ly, less common than it was in the distant past, but 
I’ve been told troubling stories about toxic versions 
forming from impure lakes. As with most spirits, 
they prefer to appear as just a presence, either rip-
ples in the surface of the water or in larger bodies, 
as an area of preternatural calmness. In smaller 
ponds, they’re fond of taking the form of a person’s 
reflection, which can be unsettling when they begin 
to move in ways the viewer did not. If called into 
a physical form, lake spirits almost always choose 
a female body, ranging from lovely women with 
ankle-length hair and white gowns to a more terri-
fying look of a drowning victim covered in weeds. 
The nature of the local legends about the body of 
water will often tell you what to expect before you 
get there. Most lake spirits are content with meta-
humanity, or even supportive, unless mistreated. 
The spirit of Central Park’s Duck Pond is rumored to 
take a physical form and stroll about, looking kindly 
on children and feeding the birds from time to time. 
Spirits in Lake Michigan, in contrast, embrace meta-
humans with cold arms and sink to the bottom of 
the water, never to rise again.
> Ghost above! Remind me to stay out of the water!
> Riot
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    153
===== PDF PAGE IDX 154 =====
> Oh girl, the stories I could tell you …
> Sounder
Spirits of the river are tricksters with a rough 
sense of humor. They often take the form of trans-
lucent fish made of water, gabbing with someone 
on shore, or mossy frogs that could easily be mis-
taken for rocks who croak at inhuman volume to 
startle hikers, laugh, then dissipate with a splash. 
Angrier spirits are as rough as rapids, made of 
gravel and sharp rocks, tumbling white foam, and 
sand. All of them are curious, exploring the length 
of their domain time and again, seeking new loca-
tions, sometimes pushing the path in new direc-
tion, and witnessing those creatures who interact 
with their flow. I’m told that some in California can 
be found with gold-producing abilities, but if they 
exist, those spirits are likely to defend themselves. 
Smaller bodies of running water, such as creeks 
or streams, sometimes produce weak river spir -
its, while the mightiest ones, like the Amazon or 
Mississippi, are filled with uncountable numbers 
of spirits, both weak and strong, including some 
great forms. 
> I wonder if there are any spirits of canals?
> Netcat
Sea spirits are the strongest known, in general, 
and like the spirits of the mountain, they tend to be 
old. In a more natural form, they tend to reverse the 
local conditions by appearing as a bubbling area in 
a calm sea, or a strangely becalmed area in other-
wise choppy waters, but when taking a more inter-
active form, they choose either a classical merfolk 
look of half-man, half-fish, or a more terrible form 
of the drowned dead whose mouths ooze black 
water when they speak, eyes long ago plucked out 
by the crabs that sometimes crawl along their bod-
ies, which are covered in barnacles, starfish, and/
or chains. They have a strong dislike of interlopers 
but will allow passage for a price. Those who pay 
are given safe passage while those who refuse … 
well, the template of the drowned has to come 
from somewhere. They care little for the affairs of 
mankind, who dwell on only the surface of their 
domain, but know of all who pass through it; if 
you want to know who or what’s come through, 
they’re unmatchable sources of information, but 
most of their other knowledge is of little use to 
people like us. 
> Not all of them accept payment against trespass. I’ve lost 
two ships in the Bermuda Triangle due to this.
> Kane
> It’s important to remember that they know what lurks 
below, and while they are loathe to give up the treasure 
that they’ve collected, they’re even more against the 
presence of metahumanity in the depths “where they 
don’t belong, ” and they put a much higher price on their 
presence. Those who are unwilling to pay, or worse 
who simply arrive and begin to craft structures, will find 
themselves beset by calamity, leaks, and hostile life forms.
> Sounder
> Like sharks?
> Riot
> Like kraken.
> Sounder
> Ghost!
> Riot
> Hey Sounder! Know how you keep wanting to hang out 
with Butch? September 19th. You, me, Butch, and the new 
kid. 
> Kane
> Anchors aweigh!
> Sounder
> … what the f… RIOT! Get in here!
> Butch
Spirits of the swamp are the mystic, mysterious 
entry of the water set, and one that I have yet to 
meet in person. Most are content to be seen as 
simple balls of light, perhaps the source of will-
o-the-wisp legends, but others take a shaggy hu-
manoid form made of muck and rotting vegeta-
tion. Talk of “swamp apes” might be sasquatches 
or swamp spirits, but most of them aren’t good 
enough to hold a solid form like this and, instead, 
are slumping mounds of mud that are only called 
humanoid out of generosity. Swamp spirits are not 
at all fond of metahumans and are all too happy to 
lead them to a terrible death within the fetid wa-
ters of their domain, even if they don’t take a direct 
hand in the matter. Like other water spirits, they 
accept payment for passage, but unlike the others, 
they sometimes betray a charge and let them die. 
These spirits have a tangled and idiosyncratic sys-
tem of rules, so the death might be due to the indi-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
154    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 155 =====
vidual breaking some rule that they did not know 
about, rather than swamp spirits being uniquely 
treacherous.
SPIRITS OF MAN
This is where things start getting interesting. Na-
ture spirits and beast spirits make sense to even 
the average layman, but spirits of man are ex-
pressly connected to mankind and to the social 
constructs that we form with one another. This is 
a note toward the chicken, or “We tell unicorns 
what to look like” side of the overall magical 
equation, versus the egg, or “We just remember 
what unicorns are supposed to look like” side of 
things that you find with the more natural spir -
its. Does one invalidate the other? Unified Magic 
Theory says no, but it threads the needle in a way 
that I’m not comfortable with. Perhaps there are 
two sources of magic? Or more? There are sim-
ply too many as-yet unknown factors preventing 
me from forming a hypothesis, let alone set up 
a true theory for peer review. But, I’m off topic. 
Spirits of man, like the nature spirits above, come 
in four categories; city, field, and hearth, capped 
with the newest addition to the family, corporate.
> Wait, what? When did this happen?!
> Arete
> You’re behind the current pulse, I’m afraid. There have 
been scattered reports over the past few years, but it’s 
not really been taken seriously until the elevation of Inazo 
Aneki to be the Corporate Kami of Renraku, Aneki-sama, 
or, more properly Aneki-no-Kami, developed a large 
enough following that his spirit, or at least spirits claiming 
to be him, have been popping up at shrines in Renraku 
facilities worldwide. There have long been rumors and 
one-off encounters with corporate-ish spirits that were 
generally considered hearth spirits, but we’re starting to 
see them as distinct entities now, with Aneki being the 
first officially recognized with the designation. Now that 
we know what to look for, I’d imagine many more will 
follow.
> Winterhawk
Spirits of the city were the youngest until the 
new corporate type were officially named, form-
ing up in large communities of metahumanity that 
have existed long enough to create a “flavor” for 
the area. The standard city spirits are reflective of 
the city’s urban nature, taking the form of stray 
garbage, or possessing iconic materials of the city 
(a street car in San Fransisco, a subway turnstyle in 
New York, and, I kid you not, a cheesesteak in Phil-
adelphia) when asked to materialize. The stronger 
spirits take a metahuman shape based on what-
ever race is most common in the city (human, ork, 
or, in the Tírs, elf) and always have a thick regional 
accent. Great forms also exist, with the city of At-
lanta being one of the most famous, a real beauty 
of a Southern belle wearing a charred dress from 
the fires in the nineteenth century. These days, 
she’s also seen wearing a pair of smart goggles 
and producing AR feeds with a gesture, reflecting 
the city’s technological status as well as its history. 
(And before you ask, those technological features 
are pure spirit illusion and non-functional. No spirit 
can interact with the digital world.) London, Par -
is, Neo-Tokyo—each and every major sprawl in 
the world has them, as well as most smaller cities 
whose spirits are, in turn, weaker. There seems to 
be a threshold of a hundred thousand people be-
fore a city spirit can manifest, with a million need-
ed for a more powerful one. The biggest cities in 
the world have the most powerful while the oldest 
cities seem to have the wisest. Make of that what 
you will. Most of the time, you’ll be dealing with 
minor versions of city spirits, “splintered” off of the 
main. Thus, in Seattle, you probably get the spirit 
of Third street when you put out a call, rather than 
Seattle herself.
> Interesting. I wonder if this “splintering” technique is 
what caused the spirit of Denver’s problems?
> Lyran
> I don’t suggest asking Zebulon. Or Ghostwalker for that 
matter.
> Frosty
> Why are so many city spirits framed in the female?
> Plan 9
> [Bad French accent filter] Because, mon ami, you fall een 
LOVE weess ze city, no? [/French accent filter]
> Slamm-0!
> More Fred code to remove …
> Bull
Field spirits are arguably the oldest of the spir -
its of man, seemingly created as we moved from 
hunting and gathering to actual agriculture. Ritual 
sacrifices to stave off blight, to bring a good har -
vest, to burn animals to ensure that more would 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    155
===== PDF PAGE IDX 156 =====
be born in the spring—all manner of ancient rituals 
were shown to be effective in the modern world, 
and even today there’re dozens of “farm mag-
es” enlisted to keep them happy, from the water 
witches and dowsing specialists in the Midwest 
to the hog callers of backwoods Alabama to the 
blood sacrifices of condemned prisoners in Azt-
lan to combat the Atlacoya Blight, all drawing on 
spirits of the field in some manner to ask for help. 
These spirits come in as many shapes as any other, 
from simple doll-sized farmhands wearing over -
alls, a straw hat, and nothing else, to warm sunlight 
to shuffling piles of cornstalks that twine around 
one another and walk the land. Across the world, 
they dislike birds and most rodents, and insist that 
the croplands be carefully tended.
> I’ve never seen one on a corporate-run industrial farm. 
Not one.
> Winterhawk
> Count yourself lucky. The high pesticide levels and 
machinery runoff causes the few that are formed to go 
toxic as a rule.
> Chainmaker
> One time in Iowa, I got chased by one that had materialized 
as a giant scarecrow, complete with scythe that cut the 
front of our SUV off clean with a single swipe. Had a pet 
crow that served as eyes in the sky to help it track us 
down. If it hadn’t been for the farmer’s daughter letting us 
inside, a handy supply of gasoline, and grandpa’s old flint 
ring, well, things would’ve been pretty hairy
> Stone
Spirits of the hearth are the middle child of 
these spirits, forming in the home of families 
who follow the old ways, respect the home, and 
are willing to leave out the right things to at-
tract the spirits. Hearth spirits most commonly 
take the form of mouse-sized humans, akin to 
mythical brownies, or cat-sized gnomes wear -
ing human-like clothes and hats. They rarely 
show themselves to the home’s occupants but 
work hard all the same, keeping things from fall-
ing apart, repairing broken table legs or chipped 
plates, mending shoes, and so on. In return, they 
need to be supplied with small saucers of food or 
drink and given respect. If they don’t get it, they’ll 
stop helping, curse the home, and leave to find 
some other family who will treat them better. In 
some cases, in modern homes that are lacking a 
true hearth, the spirits seem to be anchored to 
a treasured family item, such as one of grand-
mother’s best plates, the family holy book, or an 
ancestor’s iron tools that have been passed down 
for generations. These spirits are restricted to the 
domain of a house and yard, but their icons may 
be carefully moved to a new location, where they 
will reform after a month. 
> Had a job about that, once! Couple had a bad divorce, 
but she got his family Torah in a bitter, bitter bit of court 
maneuvering. He hired my guys to get it back. Low pay, 
but an easy job, right? Turns out that there was a hearth 
spirit bound to it, which explains why he shelled out for a 
professional in the first place.
> Stone
> How do you keep getting these jobs, anyway?
> Chainmaker
 Corporate spirits are the new kid on the block—
not yet fully understood, but recognized all the 
same. Aneki-no-Kami is the most famous, but 
Renraku as a whole seems primed for them thanks 
to their views on cultural touchstones and integra-
tion levels. Ares and Shiawase have also report-
ed them, and I can’t imagine that the other corps 
don’t have research teams investigating reports of 
their own. Most of them take on a form akin to 
a sarariman wearing the corporate logo, but Ares 
spirits have been found both in military uniforms 
and wearing denim shorts, a tank top with the old 
American flag on it, and sunglasses while twirling 
around a gun and a six-pack of beer (if certain re-
ports are to be believed). Smaller corporations are 
too sterile, lacking the critical mass of population 
that seems to create, or at least feed, these spirits. 
On the upside, there’s no spirit whose domain is 
quite so well-defined as a corporate spirit; if you’re 
in an extra-territorial corporate area, other than 
living quarters (that’s hearth territory), then you’re 
inside their zone. Step a millimeter past the signs, 
and they can’t touch you. Luckily, they’re still quite, 
rare so you’re unlikely to encounter one, but the 
Yellowstone Effect continues to spread, so it’s only 
a matter of time.
> The first of these were likely to be Aztechnology, but 
so many are conflated with blood spirits that it went 
unreported.
> Haze
> Oh God.
> Butch
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
156    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 157 =====
> Since when do you believe, Butch?
> 2XL
> I don’t, shut up. Just the sudden dawning on me that the 
ACHE probably has one asleep inside it.
> Butch
> Jesus. If that thing ever wakes up …
> 2XL
WILD BEAST SPIRITS
These are the wildcards of the wild spirit set. 
Scholars have gotten complacent, simply putting 
them into the broader of “beast spirits,” a wide ar-
ray of spirits who resemble beasts and who share 
common characteristics. This, though, is more of 
a hermetic oversight than a true-ism. Wild beast 
spirits are the only ones unbound by the concept 
of domains, freely scampering anywhere that they 
wish to go with only a token nod to the idea of be-
longing anywhere. The exception is a rural versus 
urban divide, with rural spirits such as Deer, Bison, 
or Elephant being found almost exclusively away 
from civilization while Rat, Pigeon, and Sheep are 
almost exclusively found in urban settings. A few, 
like Dog, Cat, Fox, and ever the rule-breaker Coy -
ote, can be found in either spot but are more com-
mon in one or the other. Outlying areas, like subur-
bia, are where both sides seem to mingle. There’s 
no restriction saying that you can never find Whale 
hanging out downtown or Rat in the Arctic Circle, 
but as you can imagine, the further away they are 
from where they fit, the more rare they become. 
Lacking a domain to call their own to draw power 
from, these spirits are weaker than the other wild 
spirits, but that freedom of travel gives them some 
options the rest lack. 
The most telling aspect of a beast spirit is their 
versatility. It’s a rare hermetic who can whistle one 
up, and as rare as corporate shamans have always 
been, a wildcalling corporate shaman is even more 
unknown, which has left us lacking good docu-
mentation on the assorted substrata of beast spir-
its. There are differences between, say, Bear spirits 
and Rat spirits, as you might imagine, but there are 
also subsets within those areas, with Black Bear, 
Brown Bear, and Polar Bear having different pow -
er sets and personalities than one another, as do 
Sewer Rat, Lab Rat, and Country Rat. There’s fur -
ther differentiation within those subsets by cultur -
al expectations. Rat spirits in the UCAS are often 
filthy, craven, and cruel, while those in Asia are of-
ten clever risk-takers with no association with dis-
ease. These cultural aspects are carried over to the 
spirit forms (or, again, the spirits innate differences 
influence the perception of them in those areas), 
creating a vast set of differences in each type of 
wild beast spirit. 
> Man-of-Many-Names, you’ve been holding out on us! 
This is fascinating!
> Winterhawk
> There are certainly some interesting matters that I’d like 
to know more of here. Do all Rat spirits share the same 
metaplane of origin, for instance? Will projecting from 
Tibet take you to the same metaplane as from London if 
you’re following a Rat spirit native to those areas? You’ve 
got my nose itching.
> Ethernaut
> Before you accuse me of “holding out, ” perhaps you 
would like to review the many occasions where you have 
spoken about fire spirits and the innate differences that 
they have with one another, despite everyone knowing 
such things intimately?
> Man-of-Many-Names
> Man’s got a point.
> Glasswalker
> Wait. Most of you think of Rat in a negative way?!
> Jimmy No
Wild beast spirits are often found in the service 
of other nature spirits, sharing in the protection of 
the other spirit’s domain in exchange for some-
times performing errands for it. Taking messages 
about, investigating things beyond their senses, 
leading wayward explorers off in a stray direc-
tion, and so on. Some are also both curious about 
metahumanity and genial by nature, so they find 
themselves hanging out around populated ar -
eas, engaging in people-watching and following 
those who give off interesting emotional auras. 
If you get a feeling like you’re being watched but 
no one’s there, a wild beast spirit might have just 
checked out your aura. 
> Is every spirit creepy now?
> /dev/grrl
Since there’s a good chance that a wild beast 
spirit might seek you out, they’re a great way to 
start talking to the wild spirits in your area, serv -
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    157
===== PDF PAGE IDX 158 =====
ing as a gatekeeper that can figure out who can 
be trusted and who can’t, guiding the deserv -
ing deeper into the wild world. I have some idle 
thoughts about connecting these to the first men-
tors, but it’s more of a free-association of thoughts 
than a true hypothesis at this stage. Regardless, 
many places have legends of  white hounds or red 
bulls, which are good starting locations for track -
ing down places that a wild beast spirit might fre-
quent. Otherwise, find a friend with the ability to 
see astrally and walk around for a few days. Odds 
are, you’ll run into one somewhere once you know 
what to look for.
WILD URBAN SPIRITS
One of the things that’s most caught my eye after 
the Yellowstone Incident was the introduction of 
true urban shamans. “But Elijah,” I hear you say, 
“We’ve had shamans in the city for sixty years! 
How is this new?” Glad you asked. The original 
urban shamans were little more than city-dwell-
ers who aped the Native Americans in the wake 
of the Great Ghost Dance. They had magic 
that worked after all, and those with the Talent 
weren’t going to let a little thing like a three-me-
ter-by-three-meter apartment stand between 
themselves and whistling up Grandfather Rat. 
Urban shamans were at the head of discovering 
the urban domains of spirits of man, as well as 
expanding the animal spirits that the more tradi-
tional shamans were known for, but true research 
in the field leveled out in the ’30s and never re-
ally went anywhere. Corporations just weren’t in-
terested in shamans (Or, more accurately, found 
them unreliable, while most shamans had envi-
ronmental interests that flew, hard, into the pollu-
tion wall), dedicating few resources to the issue, 
while the more “normal” shamans considered 
their city cousins sadly lacking in The Truth and 
rarely reached out. It was the SINless communi-
ty, especially orks, who tapped into this magical 
style. Unfortunately, the SINless tend to have 
poor access to materials, low, or non-existent, 
literacy, and they are more concerned with sur -
viving than getting involved in deep experimen-
tation and peer-reviewed theory. You would find 
a bright mind here or there, but there was simply 
no support network to share findings, other than 
rumor and gossip shared by talismongers. Those 
of us in academia dismissed them. 
That was a mistake.
There was a spike in urban magicians during 
the passage of Halley’s Comet, but what most of 
us missed in the general comet madness was a 
rise in urban spirits as well. As was so common, we 
mislabeled many as “spirits of man,” rather than 
understanding what they truly were, and talk of 
cars, streets, or even streets Awakening were attri-
butes to “too much deepweed.” For a supposedly 
educated lot, my people can be fools.
> There is no shame in ignorance. A child does not know 
that a fire will burn them until they touch it. Shame follows 
only when you have an opportunity to learn and choose to 
close your eyes and ears.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> There’s a disturbing trend in this nation, where people 
take pride in not knowing things. “Economics? I don’t 
know drek about that! Keepin’ it real!” Yeah, real ignorant. 
A real problem in my community is that you get more 
respect returning from prison than from college. Finding 
someone open to sitting down and thinking is rare.
> Butch
> That said, there’s more in the world than you can learn 
from a book. 
> Stone
The Yellowstone Incident changed everything. 
Whatever this energy is, when it crosses an area, 
spirits tend to wake up. They were slumbering so 
deep that we had no idea they were there. Not 
everything wakes up, of course; the idea of a city 
street erupting into dancing cars, wacky fire hy -
drants, and flapping pizza parlor awnings is the 
stuff of cartoons, but even one or two new urban 
spirits in a city block is enough to make us wonder 
how many others there could be. This is when we 
found that certain urban primitives had been wak-
ing up and communicating with urban spirits since 
’61, and their techniques were absolutely applica-
ble with these fresh births. When I’m able, I want 
to invite one of these fellows, named Drummer, to 
swing by JackPoint for a discussion, but for now, 
allow me to share one of his more salient quotes: 
“There’s a spirit in everything, chummer. The city’s 
alive. There’s a pulse, a rhythm, a heartbeat to every 
city, and each back alley has a story to tell. You just 
have to listen for it.” One of the key elements in this 
urban awakening comes from music. Just as tradi-
tional societies would dance and sing to celebrate, 
and in the process pour out astral energies to the 
spirits, so to do the urban shamans bring music to 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
158    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 159 =====
the people and, through them, energy to the astral. 
You wouldn’t think of turntables and stretched-skin 
drums as being the same thing but, whatever the 
method, a good underground rave is as much of a 
feast for spirits as a shamanic drum circle.
> Wait. Spirits eat astral energy? Like, when I get my dance 
on, something is gnawing on my leg?
> SeaTac Sweetie
> I don’t think I’m comfortable with the idea of spirits as 
parasites.
> 2XL
> Not exactly. It’s better to think of a dance as a fish tank 
and spirits as fish. When you let your emotions pour out, 
it’s like sprinkling some food into the tank. The fish ignore 
you entirely but scoop up these small bits that are floating 
around due to your action. It’s much easier if I can show 
you in person with an illusion.
> Haze
> Speaking of parasites …
> Pistons
I ask you to keep in mind that research into this 
area is still very thin and that many of these classi-
fications are subject to change as more empirical 
evidence is found, methodology perfected, and, 
in general, research completed. Again, I’m loathe 
to put this out in this state, but the pressing need 
of these unfolding situations requires a looser 
form than I prefer. 
SPIRITS OF CERAMICS
The oldest of the urban spirits, as far as we can 
tell, are the ceramic spirits. Clay, concrete, and 
glass spirits have all been placed here for now, 
as they all seem to fit the proper criteria. (That 
said, some replace glass with porcelain. This is 
bleeding-edge material, and university studies 
are hot datasteals, while extraction of research-
ers and students is right behind.) All these spirits 
are closely tied with Earth, and some insist that 
they’re just subsets of ordinary spirits.
Clay spirits are the oldest and most friendly to 
metahumanity. They tend to take the form or short, 
overweight metahumans, jolly by nature and with 
a ruddy skin that reflects their roots. They’re quite 
community oriented and are fonts of wisdom in 
terms of cooking and, by extension, herbalism. 
Most are natural historians, and all of them have a 
good eye for art in all its forms. 
Spirits of concrete are more businesslike and 
orderly than clay, with more mathematical-ori-
ented minds. As you would imagine, they enjoy 
engineering and construction, taking pride in their 
work. Most have a modern metahuman look to 
them, save for the grey, abrasive skin that defines 
them, complete with hardhats and toolbelts. I have 
reports from Europe that says they instead resem-
ble Roman soldiers over there. What I find most 
interesting is that concrete spirits talk about being 
part of a “union” and will speak of being from a 
local organization tied to that union. For example, 
“The Union of Pebbles, Gravel, Limestone, and De-
bris, local 414.” We have yet to find evidence of 
this higher-level organization, but it can’t be ruled 
out, either.
Glass spirits are sometimes reclassified due to 
their flexible nature, but, the majority of this area of 
research, such as it is, groups them with ceramics. 
Glass spirits are usually willowy and graceful, slid-
ing between shapes as easily as you or I breathe, 
while speaking in a very musical, vibrating tone. 
Those who were born in a more violent environ-
ment are instead jagged and angry, ten thousand 
shards that have been roughly shaped into a hu-
manoid form, creatures that screech in agony and 
hate as they lash out. Are these toxic glass spirits 
or pure ones? It’s too early to know, but if you en-
counter one, please try to take notes.
> Oh yeah. Top of my list of things to do when a glass 
whirlwind is trying to slash my throat open is to grab a 
pen.
> Kane
Spirits of asphalt may also be in this area but 
I personally consider them toxics, so I haven’t in-
cluded them in the general ceramic notation other 
than placing this here. Blazing hot, giving off toxic 
fumes, and being both heavy and abrasive, asphalt 
spirits are combat machines with little to offer be-
yond fighting ability. Each one I’ve read about is 
foul-tempered and lashing out in some way, with 
not a single one holding a conversation or negoti-
ation. Approach with caution.
> Ceramics are interesting, as they aren’t purely Earth. 
Water is used in concrete and clay, while fire is needed 
for clay and glass. Wonder if that influences them to be so 
communal?
> Lyran
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    159
===== PDF PAGE IDX 160 =====
> More interesting, I think, is the lack of modern ceramics 
and compounds. Refined materials, we know, are 
largely inert when magical forces attempt to influence 
them. One would imagine that they are similarly 
difficult to Awaken. The question, then, becomes this: Is 
it difficult or impossible?
> The Smiling Bandit
SPIRITS OF METAL
Nearly as old as the ceramics are the spirits of 
metal, but they’re more common in certain urban 
environments. Interestingly, the Seven Metals of 
Antiquity have all been seen in spiritual forms, 
but none of the modern metals have similarly 
been discovered. I would imagine that arsenic is 
only a matter of time, being the eighth metal, but 
that’s pure speculation on my part. 
Noble spirits are gold and silver. These are 
obvious icons of wealth and jewelry, but they are 
also known for being entirely nonreactive (gold) 
or almost entirely nonreactive (silver) with meta-
human physiology. Silver is particularly notable for 
its antiseptic properties and being a “cure” for cer-
tain magical monstrosities, such as the silver bullet 
that ends a werewolf. Noble spirits take a meta-
human shape that’s perfectly formed but made of 
their metal and clothed in rich fabrics. Like most 
spirits, they prefer classic attire (Roman robes and 
Egyptian finery both rate highly), but some can be 
found emulating the newest high fashion as well. 
Noble spirits have an arrogance about them due 
to their perceived superiority over other, common 
metals, but they also possess a noblesse oblige to 
help when asked. 
> It isn’t arrogance if you can back it up.
> Kane
Spirits of construction include both coper and 
iron, metals with a very martial history. Copper is 
the core of bronze, while iron eventually gave way 
to steel, but each has thousands of years of use in 
tools of all kinds that is reflected in their general 
handiness. Spirits of construction are builders, cre-
ators, and engineers (and get along with concrete 
spirits mentioned earlier), but they are equally at 
home in in agricultural or militaristic setting. De-
spite, or perhaps because of, their usefulness in so 
many areas, these spirits have very poor initiative 
and prefer to serve others. They enjoy working but 
have little imagination for design. 
Supportive spirits are lead and tin, often 
found alongside other, more useful, metals. Tin 
makes up the other half of bronze, while lead was 
generally discovered alongside silver and gath-
ered up due to having such a low boiling point. 
Lead and tin have been conflated in many cultures 
as “grey lead” and “white lead,” and this may be 
why they were grouped together in classification. 
These spirits take a compact metahuman forms, 
with lead invariably rounded and “plump,” while 
tin tends to being thin, easily reminding you of a 
classic comedy duo. Lead spirits are notoriously 
dull-witted, however, and you shouldn’t expect 
them to respond well to jokes, let alone know 
any. Tin spirits are more curious in that, for while 
most of metahumanity’s existence tin has been 
thought of as a strong, useful metal, the modern 
world has come to think of “tin cans” as short-
hand for fragile and weak, and this modern per -
ception has influenced spirits of tin to sometimes 
be laughably fragile. 
> Wonder if copper and tin spirits can combine themselves 
into Bronze and fight better?
> Riot
Mercury bears a mention all its own. Mercu-
ry has a reputation for being energetic, wild, and 
temperamental, an ignoble metal that’s reflective 
of many of man’s most base features. It’s also the 
first substance found which would react to the no-
ble metals of silver and gold, melting them and 
allowing for amalgamation to take effect. Mercu-
ry spirits should be treated with caution, as their 
emotional picots come quickly and with strength, 
causing them to lash out over minor incidents but, 
just as quickly, to calm down and apologize. Mer-
cury spirits flow through new shapes as often as 
a person’s heart beats, chaotic spirits who simply 
cannot keep the same shape for any length of 
time. Curiously, despite the fact that mercury is a 
silvery metal, many mercury spirits are red.
> Oh hey, one that I know! A long time ago, thermometers 
used to be filled with mercury, but the silver was hard to 
see, so it was often colored red to stand out. When people 
found out that mercury was bad for you if you swallowed 
it (always a risk with oral thermometers), it was removed 
and replaced with alcohol, which was still given the 
bright-red coloration. This lead to generations of people 
being born who believe that mercury is red and who 
are always shocked to find out otherwise. If this psycho-
reactive theory of magic is correct, since so many people 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
160    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 161 =====
believe the color is red, then the spirits who are influenced 
by that would be red. Ta da!
> Bull
> There’re so many small errors in here that I’m twitching. I 
understand that you’re not a metallurgist, but … gah.
> Beaker
SPIRITS OF ENERGY
Now we start getting a little more out there. Spir -
its of electricity are known to exist, and they make 
up the only real type of spirits in this category, 
but there are several more contenders who want 
in. Should fire be classified as energy? Radiation? 
What about magnetism? In all honesty, this cate-
gory exists to be the “fire” of an earth/water/fire/air 
wheel for urban spirits that I’m not certain is appro-
priate. Certainly electrical spirits exist beyond the 
more storm-like lightning spirits of nature, but are 
they an entire category unto themselves or simply 
one aspect of a greater whole? I tend to believe 
the former but, as always, this is a young school of 
thought and there is a lot of research yet to do. For 
now, I’m using energy as a grouping, but I know that 
this classification could change more than most.
Electrical spirits are cousins of storm and light-
ning, but they are harnessed by metahumanity 
into doing something useful. Most people think 
of electricity as dangerous, but that’s a lower-case 
“d.” Much like the difference between burning 
your hand on a pot is “hot” while a raging house 
fire is “Hot,” so too is house current “dangerous” 
while a downed power line is “Dangerous.” Elec-
trical spirits come in both flavors, from the small 
useful ones who can charge your commlink in an 
emergency to Old Sparky, the spirit of electric 
chairs who can, and will, end you. Electrical spir -
its are curious, poking around anywhere you call 
them up, and flighty; you’ll have to work to keep 
them focused on a task at hand. Most take a car -
toonish, vaguely humanoid look when they man-
ifest, not unlike fire spirits but more adorable. I’d 
offer a picture but, you know … spirits.
> Wait, that’s it? One type of spirit? Why is this not just 
“Spirits of Electricity?”
> Sounder
> He mentioned it’s a work in progress. It’s good to leave 
some room for expansion if your hypothesis starts 
showing legs.
> The Smiling Bandit
SPIRITS OF THE AIRWAVES
If you were thinking in pure scientific terms, you’ll be 
blowing a gasket right about now. “Radio waves are 
just a form of energy!” True, but the metaphysical 
aspects are more important than the physics, here. 
Airwave spirits echo broadcasts of modern trideo, 
older flatvids, and even radio broadcasts, but not AR 
or wireless Matrix signals, which is a fascinating sub-
section I want to investigate someday, but I digress. 
Airwaves rarely manifest in the traditional sense, in-
stead choosing to form on broadcast devices, such 
as a nearby trideo screen (regardless of if it works 
or not!), or buzzing into your headphones. The few 
who take a physical form invariably mimic some 
kind of broadcast icon, from a film noir detective to 
Dracula to Santa Claus, reproducing the sound and 
pattern of whatever icon they’re impersonating. The 
ones who reach back far enough often have a grainy, 
black-and-white appearance. The rest flit frequently 
between characters, speaking snippets from com-
mercials or movie lines, resulting in a spliced togeth-
er conversational string. The first few times it’s jarring 
and you wonder why they can’t simply say “Don’t 
trust that guy” and instead move from one source to 
another as they piece together phrases. Let me call 
one up. Hang on.
> UPLOAD: VIDEO_CLIP_STAGGERED_01>
“Don’t buy” “ ANYTHING!” “this guy” “says about” 
“need” “the cops!”
Six different sources, three off flatvids, one from 
that annoying Juan commercial, a radio broadcast, 
and one I don’t know, just for a single sentence. It’s 
annoying, but you adapt to it soon enough. Most 
of what they say you can physically record, since 
they’re transmitting via ordinary electronics, but 
every now and then, they’ll talk to you through an 
old broken vid screen, crackling it to life and put-
ting on a performance through it. Those are pure 
astral energy and unrecordable. Oh, and before 
you ask? They can’t interact with anything Ma-
trix-based. They can hop onto your commlink’s 
video feed or through the headphones to buzz 
your ear, but they can’t access any data on it, ac-
tivate any AR controls, or even sense AR or VR 
constructs. The Matrix remains a hard line drawn 
between metahumanity and spirits. 
> Discounting free sprites and other Matrix entities, which 
are very much alive.
> Netcat
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    161
===== PDF PAGE IDX 162 =====
> Or e-ghosts. Not that I know anything about those.
> Icarus
> I’m going to head this one off now. “ Are sprites Matrix 
spirits?” is a whole other chatroom two doors down.
> Glitch
Regardless of the limitations, I’m finding some 
small differences between reports of video spirits 
and radio spirits, and there might be others as we 
dig deeper into this one. Much like Energy above, 
I’m willing to give them a category of their own, 
for now, until we can properly assign them taxon-
omy. There are others which may wind up in these 
categories, or reshuffle the entire deck, now that 
we’re starting to see them wake up and begin em-
barking on their own agendas. 
VEHICLE SPIRITS
> Wait, what?
> Slamm-0!
I’m willing to bet someone just went “Wait, 
what?” under that title.
> Drek.
> Slamm-0!
Truth is, there have been legends of spiritual 
vehicles for a thousand years, with ships being the 
first of these “ghost vehicles,” then trains, cars, and 
now aircraft as well. These spirits are somewhat 
harder to classify, with most having simply called 
them spirits of man and moved on, but they’re dis-
tinct enough that I feel that they deserve their own 
classification. I’ve further separated them into four 
subcategories, matching a more traditional spiritu-
al class. I’m blazing a bit of a trail here, and we’re 
a long way from a proper peer review, so under -
stand that there are some areas that will need to 
be amended over time.
VEHICLES OF THE SEA
The oldest of the vehicular spirits—those of the 
sea—are almost entirely based on sailing vessels, 
drifting about the oceans of the world, and some 
smaller navigable bodies of water, like aban-
doned craft. Indeed, many legends of unmanned 
ships at sea are early viewings of these spirits 
which had Materialized, showing them opera-
tional but without a living soul on board. The first 
post-Awkening report of these was from Janu-
ary 1, 2012, when an old Spanish galleon wan-
dered into Havana. It was approached by author -
ities and boarded, found empty, but it resisted 
attempts to take the helm. Once it had docked 
itself, it melted away into mist, leaving puzzled 
agents in its wake. Similar ships have been seen 
all around the Bermuda Triangle, the Sargasso 
Sea, and in the South China Sea, of all places. 
(These are likely mis-identified Portuguese ship 
designs, of course.) 
More worrisome are the “ghost pirates,” ships 
that carry a number of spirits aboard them, attack-
ing small vessels on the high sea. Akin to the Flying 
Dutchman legends of old, these ships come seeking 
the treasurers as they did in life, but sometimes take 
a single metahuman on board instead. While all spir-
its of sea vehicles have terrifying properties, these 
crewed vessels seem to have a much magnified ver-
sion of this, as every eyewitness report differs. And 
each is seemingly more horrible than the last. 
> Rumor has some of these vessels as being populated with 
half-man, half-creature abominations, some of skeletons 
or ghosts, while others are said to be humans through and 
through and unfailingly polite to those who follow their 
rules. Those who don’t have their skin flayed from their 
bodies, then the meat pulled away, torturing someone to 
death over failing to say “bless you” after a sneeze. The 
worst monsters hide their nature.
> Sounder
> I should point out that Elijah is using “ghost” in a loose 
way here. He knows well that there are no confirmed 
reports of an afterlife, only some spirits who claim to be 
the spirit of a deceased person and who have some ability 
to tap into some, but not all, of their memories.
> Winterhawk
> Just because it hasn’t been proven, don’t think it isn’t real. 
> Thorn
> The Caribbean is full of people that are terrified of these 
things, and any port you pull into will serve up a hundred 
stories. Never seen one myself, but I’ve used the reputation 
a few times. Stick a fog machine on your ship, play some 
spooky sounds and flash some lights, and people wet 
themselves thinking you’re the Flying Dutchman. Bunch 
of idiots.
> Kane
> They’re not all sailboats. Plenty of gas-powered yachts 
or warships are out there, but none dating from after 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
162    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 163 =====
the twenty-first century. The scariest, by far, are the 
submarines. Friend of mine was on board a ship that was 
sunk by some kind of German sub that looks to be from 
the middle of the twentieth century. One whole side caved 
in, skeleton soldiers wearing old uniforms and armbands, 
seawater and weeds pouring out when it surfaced to fire 
on the sinking ship with a deck gun … just horrible.
> Sounder
> Bet your friend was drunk of her ass when she shared that 
story.
> Kane
> He, actually, and yes. What does that have to do with 
anything?
> Sounder
> Hey, while we’re here, anybody know about that Azzie 
missile cruiser that vanished? Reports have been sketchy.
> Snopes
> Three weeks ago, the C106 Atzcapotzalco was on a 
maiden voyage, intending to bring some pushback to the 
CAS by strutting their latest and greatest in the Gulf of 
Aztlan. A storm appeared and blew the escort ships off 
course, and it took nearly twenty-four hours for them to 
reconnect. Everyone was found … except for C106. Search 
efforts have continued, but now they’re looking for scrap, 
not survivors. The interesting thing is that it’s the third 
cruiser they’ve lost in the area.
> Icarus
> Once is an accident, two a coincidence, but three is enemy 
action. All three lost ships were constructed in San Diego, 
and after this latest incident, Aztlan is combing every 
inch of that yard to ferret out whomever’s responsible. 
Fingers are pointed at CAS, the PCC, Horizon—you name 
it, they’re accused of it, and each of those pointing fingers 
it tipped with a hand full of money for anyone that can 
prove it. Needless to say, jobs a-plenty for us.
> Fianchetto
> Curious what made you ask about that here, Snopes.
> Sunshine
> Because I have some rumors about a ghost ship being 
seen off the coast of Texas that sounds similar, but no one 
has any actual evidence for me yet. I’d hoped that some of 
you might know more.
> Snopes
> Give that kind of thing away for free?
> Icarus 
VEHICLES OF THE LAND
The ones you’re more likely to see (in a relative 
sense; most people will go their entire lives with-
out seeing one of these things) are the land ve-
hicles, simply because you’re more likely to be 
there than anywhere else. The first thing you may 
notice is the age of these things; not a single one 
has been spotted that dates after the Awakening 
in terms of emulated design, which is rather sur -
prising due to magic not existing when these cars 
did. There are some working theories about this, 
the largest being that modern designs are some-
how lacking the right “soul,” while others think 
it’s tied in with the spread of plastic and other 
unnatural materials in their construction. I hope 
to investigate this further at some stage but, for 
now, my research keeps me otherwise engaged. 
Then again, a few of them are fairly close to my 
current location …
Trains come in two flavors: The more common 
is the ghost train, which runs along the tracks it 
once traveled, despite those tracks having been 
gone for a century or more. They seem to be most-
ly harmless, simply passing through and whistling, 
which has some researchers rating them more as 
phenomena than true spirits. There are also those 
who have seen them stop to pick up lone passen-
gers who have never been seen again. 
> Not entirely true. Normally they only pick up the dead or 
dying, but if you have the right ticket, they can take you 
through the astral to other locations. Friend of mine knew 
a guy who could buy tickets from (and, brother, they 
weren’t cheap) who was able to get from New York City to 
LA in under an hour thanks to this.
> Stone
> That’s amazing! Do you have his contact information?
> Winterhawk
> I wish. Last time he, wound up with the wrong ticket and 
went somewhere into the metaplanes. His body came 
back, but his mind? Not so much.
> Stone
While ghost trains can be found all over the 
world (along with headless rail workers who 
search for a replacement by lantern-light), there’s 
a specimen that’s exclusive to North America. The 
Iron Buffalo is said to be a crazed combination of 
locomotive, fire, and a buffalo, mystically placing 
tracks before it that vanish into ethereal flames in 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    163
===== PDF PAGE IDX 164 =====
its wake. It screams as it travels, sometimes chas-
ing down living people, which it swallows into its 
furnace for power. I’ve never seen this one, but I 
think I heard one near Roswell. The fear was par -
alytic, and despite my curiosity, I wasn’t able to 
force myself closer to witness it firsthand. 
> From what I’m told, these things were created when a 
bunch of trains found out that mummies were cheaper 
than coal around two hundred years ago and used to 
toss them in as kindling. Commoners burned okay, but a 
prince could really give you a boost. 
> Stone
> Do you want haunted trains? Because burning cursed 
Egyptian royalty is how you get haunted trains.
> Slamm-0!
> That’s an urban legend, a tale spun by notorious 
talespinner Mark Twain, with zero corroboration. 
> Icarus
> Maybe so, but one of the thoughts Elijah has been setting 
down is that belief in something is enough to shape 
magic, regardless of the truth.
> Jimmy No
> Wait, are you telling me that if I lie hard enough to make 
myself believe it, it’ll happen? 
> Lyran
> One person’s not enough. You’d need hundreds if not 
thousands, of people all focusing on the same thought at 
the same time, binding it with emotion. This is why rock 
concerts or sporting events are so addictive to magical 
forces. The energy that these events unleash is focused 
by that shared thought and emotional base, emerging in 
waves of astral energy.
> Akuchi
> Confession time: I hit Flipside a few times myself to 
check out some performances and, woo, let me tell you, I 
understand how Haze got addicted.
> Kat-o-Nine-Tales
> I’m not an addict, dammit!
> Haze
Lastly are the car spirits, which again always seem 
to be based of designs before the twenty-first cen-
tury. Most are racers or sometimes muscle cars, but 
all of them are big, loud, and fast. Flames and skulls 
are common. Some have ghostly drivers, others 
don’t, and they seem to exist just to test themselves 
against metahuman drivers. I’m told that some are 
cautionary, some take the soul of those who chal-
lenge them and lose, while others just go through 
the motions and vanish before reaching the fin-
ish line. Not all ghost cars race, of course, but even 
those with other goals tend to ride the roads for 
adventure. Interestingly enough, they’re one of the 
easiest vehicular spirits to research due to a reliable 
timing and location. Ask the locals of any small town 
about “Dead Man’s Curve” and you’re sure to hit a 
legend of a driver who’ll accept challenges under the 
full, or new, moon, or who shows up once a year on 
the anniversary of some local boy’s death, looking to 
run the race he never got to when he died the night 
before. Sadly, there’s a shortage of people with both 
the Talent and a deep fascination with automobiles, 
so these rocks have been largely left unturned.
> … so, who wants to join me for a road trip?
> Turbo Bunny
VEHICLES OF THE AIR
As you might suspect, these are the newest, and 
least-common, of the vehicular spirits. Not only 
are they pre-twenty-first century, but most of 
these are subsonic planes that use propellers, of 
all things. They’re mostly seen in North America 
and Europe, with Germany and England having 
numerous incidents of World War II-era planes in 
their skies, while France sees planes from World 
War I. The UCAS has a few from the era of barn-
stormers, and there have been sightings of a 
ghostly Hindenberg which may be a spirit or may 
be an astral phenomenon; sightings are rare and 
investigation has been in the singular. There have 
also been numerous sightings of UFOs which is 
a whole area of discussion I don’t want to enter.
> They aren’t aliens. There’s no such thing as aliens. They’re 
psychic echoes of the fear of aliens, manifested in spirit 
form drawn form ambient astral energies.
> Plan 9
> … can someone find my jaw for me?
> Snopes
> The astral energies are eddies left behind from the 
passage of Sirrurg when he was scouting Roswell during 
a brief upswing in magic, before going back to Aztlan for 
another sixty years of slumber.
> Plan 9
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
164    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 165 =====
> Ah, there it is.
> Snopes
AWAKENED VEHICLES
The last category are Awakened vehicles, ma-
chines which have somehow developed an astral 
form. Interestingly, none seem to be truly sen-
tient while the mechanical part is still function-
al, but come to life after the “body” has “died.” 
Some will tell you of waking up just before they 
died, possibly saving the life of their driver at the 
cost of their own, but most wake up in terrible 
pain, finding themselves unable to move and cast 
into a junkyard to rust away. I’ve personally only 
met one of these, but I’m told that there is a Par -
liament of Cars in the Pacific Northwest, where a 
dozen cars in a junkyard are Awake and speak to 
one another about fond memories. Needless to 
say, it’s on my touring list for the near future.
> Treat your car right, it’ll never let you down.
> Clockwork
> They’ll never replace having friends.
> Netcat
> Fuck you.
> Clockwork
HERMETIC ELEMENTALS
One of the things I’ve mentioned here was the 
rise of UMT and how it’s largely taken over magi-
cal trends in both shamanic and hermetic circles. 
We just went through a wide section on wild spir-
its, both natural and urban, and there’s a section 
yet to go, but before we get there, I want to talk 
about elementals. For the youths in the mix, these 
are the four elements that you’ve seen with air, 
earth, fire, and water, as sat down by Aristotle, 
and the foundation of the hermetic tradition that 
you usually see bandied about as “true” mag-
ic. One of the largest unanswered questions of 
the hermetic elemental style was the lack of an 
aether, the fifth element known sometimes as 
quintessence. Hermetic magicians chased this 
for fifty years until it was finally unlocked by the 
students in Prague who also unlocked Universal 
Magic Theory. Unlocking that discovery changed 
the very nature of the spirits that they called, 
moving from a fire elemental to a spirit of fire, for 
one example. To you, that might not sound un-
usual, but for those who predated that discovery, 
the difference is massive. 
So now you might wonder why all hermetic 
magicians now use the new method.
First, they don’t, there are still several crusty 
old timers who refuse to change their ways and 
still whistle up elementals, but for the majority? 
It’s all about being in the right place at the right 
time. When magic first returned to the world, 
people jumped quickly to the magical forms that 
they knew. For shamans, this was to call upon 
old dances and songs while for hermetics, it 
was musty tomes and scrolls. It wasn’t until the 
’30s that the stubborn codgers started moving 
to a more digital format, and it was the genera-
tion that came of age in the ’50s who well and 
truly embraced it, turning away from big thick 
books and reams of paper. The older magicians 
lived through the Crash and were always patting 
themselves on the back about having hardcopies 
and how they didn’t lose their knowledge. The 
younger types made fun of them while flicking 
through digital spellbooks that they could fit into 
personal secretaries or even slot into headware 
memory. Costs for printing kept going up, de-
mand kept going down, and by the mid-’50s, it 
was a massive moneysink for even Mitsuhama. 
They started moving away from physical tomes 
and moved fully to a digital grimoire in 2060. 
When they bought the rights to distribute UMT’s 
core concepts, they waived purchasing the 
printing of physical media, which was scooped 
up by the Atlantean Federation. The AF was al-
ready one of the larger publishers of physical 
books in the market and the largest for dead tree 
versions of magical talk, and MCT would rather 
they have an outmoded option than cut into the 
digital sales. UMT, which unlocked the quintes-
sence that so many had been searching for, was 
a huge hit and became their best-selling book, 
with requests for summoning formulae coming 
in from every direction.
> Wait. I thought Aztechnology was the largest?
> Butch
> Nope, it’s MCT , of all corps. The Azzies are their primary 
rival in the field, with Saeder-Krupp never having as large 
of a slice as you’d expect a dragon-lead corp to have. 
Wuxing didn’t even have a magical wing until getting that 
third A, but it has quickly shot up the ranks. 
> Jimmy No
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    165
===== PDF PAGE IDX 166 =====
> In terms of physical publishing, the Atlanteans are third, 
behind Renraku and Shiawase, but they’re tops in terms 
of publishing magical books. I have no idea how they 
went from a crackpot mailing list group to one of the 
world’s most prolific publishers.
> Haze
Of course, this is when Crash 2.0 hits, wip-
ing out virtually all digital data, eradicating the 
Matrix, and leaving the world unplugged for 
weeks—or months, depending on the region—
and requiring two years of repairs and reboots to 
the underbelly of the system. During this time, all 
those formulae that Mitsuhama so lovingly sold 
via the Matrix or datachip services? Eradicated. 
Fifty years of magical research almost entirely 
gone in a flash. As people started realizing what 
had happened, paranoia set in. A magician with-
out spells is hardly a magician at all, and there 
were several mages who were driven by desper -
ation to commit some rather heinous acts. Once 
news of the first murder (or at least rumors of 
same) got out, those who still had the data went 
into hiding, pretending that they didn’t have any 
in order to not be murdered for knowledge. I wish 
I could say that the community came together in 
love and understanding and started sharing their 
knowledge with their peers in the name of re-
storing lore, but no. While this is going on, the AF 
newsletters started arriving using good-old snail 
mail, pressing past the modern digi-saster with 
old-fashioned pen and paper. Hungry mages 
flocked to the information and started ordering 
copies at any price. Atlantean printing presses 
didn’t stop for nearly a year, cranking out file after 
file, and what was the most ordered thing? UMT 
summoning rituals. By the time the Matrix was 
up and running again, UMT was accepted as the 
new way of doing things properly by both young 
mages and old, and those who lost their access 
to spells during the crash, then watched their 
brothers do amazing new things with the new 
theories, flocked to MCT once they were online 
again, ignoring the old and embracing the new. 
By the time the old elemental files were recon-
structed, no one cared. By 2065, hermetic magi-
cians were known for calling spirits of air, earth, 
fire, and water, topped off by spirits of man. The 
Quintessence and elementals had fallen into dis-
favor, but they still exist.
You don’t see them often, but a few of the old 
timers still call them up instead of modern spirits, 
and they sometimes pass their forms on to young-
er mages. It’s a dying art, but with the Yellowstone 
Incident straining the control that many magicians 
have over their spirits, and introducing wild spir -
its which yield to no one, the idea of a fully sub-
servient spirit is growing in appeal once again. I’ll 
provide a primer; you’ll decide what to do with it. 
Let’s go.
ELEMENTALS IN GENERAL
In the older hermetic tradition, elementals are 
formed of the basic building blocks of all matter, 
the essence of air, earth, fire, and water. All things 
are composed of these, in this theory, with a fifth 
essence, the Quintessence, or aether, being the 
unknowable energy of life itself. Call it a soul, call 
it a touch of the divine, whatever you wish, but 
it was a concept and a quest more than a known 
commodity. Hermetic magicians would call up 
an essence in a pure form, slaving it to their will, 
where they would serve willingly, if not excep-
tionally. This works differently than today’s spirit 
summoning in subtle ways, and from shamanism 
in more overt ways, with the largest being that 
elementals were, shall we say, slow of mind. This 
stunted mental state left them easier to control 
but also easier to confuse, as well as lacking in 
any personality beyond the very basic. They were 
tools, closer to spells incarnated into physical 
forms than spirits as we talk of them today. Re-
search indicates that some spirits seem to com-
municate with one another, establishing a sort of 
astral reputation for magicians who treat spirits 
well, or an astral notoriety for those who abuse 
them, not unlike the rumor mill and friend-of-a-
friend system that shadowrunners use to keep 
tabs on one another, indicating what fixers and 
Mr. Johnsons are on the level. We’ve never seen 
any indication that elementals engage in such 
information-trading, which has lead to a rather 
unfortunate situation where mages who have 
burned all their astral bridges have scrambled 
backwards, pulling up elemental conjuring for -
mulae to take the place that no spirit will fill. That 
means that, at this stage, most elemental conjur -
ers are either quite old and set in their ways or 
immoral bastards who have a long reputation of 
abusing spirits. Still, with the Yellowstone Inci-
dent creating pushback in the spirit world, there’s 
a throwback movement forming in hermetic cir -
cles to “take the astral back” and reclaim hermetic 
elementalism and spiritual subservience.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
166    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 167 =====
> Heremetic circles. Hah!
> Slamm-0!
> How can you laugh at this? He’s talking about those who 
have so abused spirits that none will work with them and 
so they turn to buying astral slaves. There’s nothing funny 
in that! These people are monsters.
> Netcat
> Yeah, I know, but … wordplay.
> Slamm-0!
> For those curious, Mitsuhama has had a full suite of 
elemental formulae on the Matrix since June of last year.
> Haze
> You sick fuck.
> Pistons
> Hey, not my thing. I just wanted to help point out it’s not 
an underground movement anymore.
> Haze
> Troubling.
> Man-of-Many-Names
ELEMENTALS IN PARTICULAR
I’d originally hammered out each in turn, but 
then I realized that writing “A vaguely metahu-
man-shaped column of (element)” over and over 
would bore my old professor to death. The four el-
ementals are exactly that, with some subtle hints 
about their power level from size and structure. 
Hotter fire elementals are blue and cooler ones 
are red, for example, while weak earth elementals 
are mostly dirt and strong ones are more stone. 
Weak air are fluffy white clouds, strong ones are 
dark and stormy or tornado-like. Water elementals 
are … well, water. Volume’s the only thing I’ve seen 
to really tell them apart. The weakest ones are the 
size of kittens and can fit in your hand, normal 
ones are around human-sized, while strong ones 
are ork- or troll-sized. If you see them bigger than 
that? Get the frag out. As for personalities? Easy.
They don’t have them.
Elementals are closer to programmed drones 
than spirits, undertaking whatever task that they’re 
ordered to but not deviating from that very well. 
They don’t talk as a general rule, but they can if 
commanded to; guards tend to give a warning or 
say “Halt,” for example, but conversation? Forget 
it. They can’t be bribed or seduced, and they ar -
en’t easy to trick since they don’t process things 
like a truly sentient creature would. But if you can 
go outside of their programming, they’ll just stand 
there while you go about your business. Finding 
out how their orders are worded can turn a dan-
gerous encounter into a cakewalk. 
FOUR OUT OF FIVE AIN’T BAD
The last takeaway from this is that those following 
the hermetic elemental path only summon ele-
mentals in four flavors. Air, earth, fire, water, and 
that’s it. The discovery of the fifth essence, the 
Quintessence, led to UMT and the summoning of 
“proper” spirits, rather than elementals. The ma-
gicians following this old path don’t have that op-
tion. They only get four, not five, spirits to answer 
them. In addition to the most obvious lack this 
produces, it stands that, since one area of study 
has no spirit analogue that they tend to be weak 
in one area of study. For traditional hermetic stud-
ies, the lack of a spirit of man means that they 
don’t have any spiritual support for Health magic, 
from healing to augmentations to water breath-
ing.  They can still cast those spells, they just don’t 
have a spirit that can help them sustain spells, aid 
sorcery, and so forth. 
> Hang on. Hermetic elementals can be called up by people 
other than hermetics? What?
> Lyran
> According to Mitsuhama, as long as the caster can call 
on the four elements, it doesn’t matter what the fifth was 
or what the actual tradition is. They’ve managed to tie the 
summoning rituals to several traditions, but it’s an either/
or scenario. Once ordinary spirits learn that you call astral 
slaves to service, they refuse to work with you. If you turn 
your back on the elemental method, there’s a chance that 
you can redeem your reputation with a lot of work, but it 
won’t be easy. 
> Haze
> Spoken like someone who’s gone through the process.
> Bull
> No, but my reputation’s been through the ringer here. I 
can relate.
> Haze
PLATONIC CONCEPTS
The final step in this journey is the bleeding 
edge of thaumaturgical research, where the 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    167
===== PDF PAGE IDX 168 =====
very boundaries of scientific magic are pushed. 
In this case, we talk of Platonics. These are con-
cepts, both in terms of social constructs via mind-
space or philosophy, but also in terms of ideals 
or non-sentient objects. As an example, picture a 
chair in your mind. No, I’m being serious. This is 
important. Close your eyes for a moment, count 
to three, then form an image of a chair in your 
mind. Got it? Okay, good.
What was it made out of? Was it wood? Plas-
tic? Metal? How many legs did it have? Did it have 
four? Three? One? Did it have rubber feet to hold it 
solidly in place, or did it have rollers? Or, perhaps, 
rockers? Was it padded or hard? Armrests or no 
rests? What color was it? Was it only a single color 
or more? Were there patterns in the design?
I would imagine that each of you, right now, 
have a different mental picture of a chair in your 
mind. Your chair is different then my chair, which 
is different than Bull’s chair, which is certainly dif-
ferent than Slamm-0!’s chair, but at the end of the 
day, they’re all chairs.
The reason I bring that up is that the thing 
we call the ultimate level of chair, the high chair 
(hah!) or, to use the technical term, the Perfect 
Chair, is all of those chairs at the same time. Your 
mind can’t form it, your brain can’t fathom how 
it can be a rocking chair and an easy chair and 
a beanbag chair all at the same time, but they 
all fit under the umbrella of “chair” and, as such, 
belong to this Perfect Chair hierarchy. The level 
below this would be the Platonic chairs, each of 
which are perfect examples of every chair you 
can imagine. There’s the Platonic school desk, 
the Platonic office Chair, the Platonic throne, and 
so on, each of which is exactly what you picture 
when those words are mentioned, without also 
being the others that are all contained by Per -
fect Chair. In turn, each of those chairs spawns 
assorted chair forms, which are variations upon 
that Platonic chair. There are office chairs with 
or without armrests, some that are black and 
chrome, some that have fabric covering, some 
with a leather-like substitute, some with five 
casters, some with six, and some with four. Each 
of these chair forms is subservient to the Platon-
ic chair above, which is in turn subject to the Per -
fect Chair. With me so far?
> I am not high enough for this.
> Stone
Replace “chair” above with “bear,” and you 
start scratching at the easy-to-reach areas of this 
research. Polar bear, brown bear, black bear, and 
grizzly are all under the Perfect Bear in terms of 
capabilities, yet each is somewhat different. Be-
yond this are regional versions of these Platon-
ic bears, or bear forms. Russian bear is not West 
Virginia bear is not California bear, yet each is still 
part of both Platonic Bears and the Perfect Bear. 
Totemic avatars fit in this band in some as yet-un-
agreed-upon way, as do mentor spirits, while be-
low them are the more common Bear spirits that 
you might encounter in your daily life. 
> I was wrong. I’m exactly high enough for this.
> Stone
We have a degree of research on this concept, 
and Axis Mundi, should he be around when this is 
uploaded, should be able to tell you more on the 
subject if you’re curious, but where that data has 
led us is quite interesting. That an animal can be 
totemic is a given; we’ve had Wolf, Bear, and more 
since magic returned, but quietly a few other men-
tors arose that fell outside the lines. It started with 
The Adversary and Wise Woman, still iconic but 
not formed around a physical thing so much as an 
idea. From there we reached the mythical, Drag-
on and Phoenix, and then Sun, Moon, and further 
away. Research around religions is a very touchy 
subject for several reasons, but we know that there 
are spirits that embody concepts, such as Mercy or 
Healing, which are then revered when they appear 
and sometimes conflated with religious icons. We 
continue to push magical concepts further and fur-
ther, extending our boundaries, and one wonders 
just how far it can go? Can pure concepts serve 
in this way? Could one take Art as a mentor, or 
Justice? Would spirits of these concepts arise fully 
formed as they were discovered or are they within 
us in some way, dormant and waiting to be awo-
ken? If these bright and noble thoughts could be 
followed in that way, it would stand to reason that 
there are dark opposites that would also be slum-
bering, spirits of Hate or Torture. We have reports 
of spirits that feed off that sort of negative energy 
from the Azt-Am War, but as the war has ended, 
so to have the reports. Did they go back to sleep? 
Did they only exist in the maelstrom of energy that 
is war and fall apart afterwards? We need to know 
more. We continue to dig, we continue to explore, 
and we continue to learn.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
168    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 169 =====
> As I have said before, burn your books. Cast aside your 
old knowledge when new arrives.
> Man-of-Many-Names
> Wonder if those things are really gone?
> Kane
> Sixty-eight years. It has taken you only two-thirds of a 
century and you assemble this kind of magical theory. I 
should have paid more attention to Dunklezahn when he 
was still around. With the Matrix, with communications 
technology, with a culture that promotes the sharing of 
information, not greedily hoarding it in some sequestered 
tower, written in a secret code known only to you and 
lost at your death, with the sheer volume of population, 
several orders of magnitude beyond what once was, you 
learn so much, so quickly! He told those he respected 
(how he counted me in that number, I will never know) 
of this, and of how you had the potential to learn things 
that we never did. We dismissed those claims. It was in 
error. How could a monkey type Romeo and Juliet on a 
typewriter? The answer, it would seem, is that you simply 
have to gather enough monkeys. It’s not that they will 
eventually type it at random so much as they will learn 
to communicate with one another, improve their works, 
and before you know it they will complete works on par 
with the Bard himself. And look! Even as the nobility is 
expressed, you understand the danger of the darkness, 
you see that it can appeal and that there are paths that 
must not be followed, yet some walk them no matter how 
many warnings you lift. The Big D suggested this was a 
possibility, but we brushed it aside. For one who wears 
the jester’s face, I know what it is to feel the fool.
> The Laughing Man
> Uh, guys? Have you looked at the timestamp on that 
comment? TLM added that before we got it.
> Slamm-0!
> Or he got a really good hacker to change the code for him.
> Bull
> Or he’s a good enough hacker to do it himself.
> Glitch
> I haven’t been able to reach him directly in a while, or I’d 
ask him myself. Just something to keep an eye on.
> Slamm-0!
> Slamm-0! is taking a security issue seriously? Stone, pass 
me some of what you’re having, because I know I’m not 
high enough for that.
> Glitch
IN CLOSING ...
Assuming I make it out of here alive, I’ll log in to 
JackPoint and talk about the file a bit. I’m still not 
comfortable with it and, as you can tell, it’s more 
of a collection of notes and speculation instead of 
true scientific thoughts laid into a proper format, 
but, I’ve been guzzling tequila and some medical 
herbs that I don’t quite recognize out here, so I’ll 
be amazed if it comes through at all. Elijah, sign-
ing off, hopefully not for the last time.
> And for those who’ve been pestering me for the past week 
since the files dropped, I can say both that he made it 
through and that he’s here to answer a few questions. Go 
easy on him, kids, he’s been through some rough times, 
and I’m not sure how long he’ll be able to stay. He’s still 
recovering.
> Bull
> Hello everyone.
> Elijah
> 8.9 GP OF DATA DELETED BY SYSOP
> Yes yes, we’re all glad you’re back/glad to see you etc. On 
topic, please.
> Glitch
> So, how’d you get banged up, anyway?
> Butch
> One of the areas I went to had a few Azzies around who 
hadn’t gotten word that they lost the territory a couple of 
years ago. Extraterritorality, how does that work? And of 
course, my history with the Big A didn’t help things much. 
At any rate, I was putting my nose where it should not be, 
and while the bullet barriers worked wonders, I missed 
the grenade. Shrapnel is not your friend. On the plus side, 
I don’t have any metal parts and my organs are mostly 
functional, but one kidney’s done and there’s some other 
intestinal issues that might require bioware replacement. 
I’m trying to decide if it’s worth it or not. The debt’s bad, 
but I’ve seen the impact even minor upgrades can have 
on a magician’s aura, and I’m not sure if the tradeoffs 
worth it.
> Elijah
> I never thought about what it’s like for you wizbangers. If 
somebody’d cut me that bad, I’d upgrade in a nanotick.
> Riot
> Says the kid saving up for her first cybereye.
> Butch
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    169
===== PDF PAGE IDX 170 =====
> Still in the PCC?
> Haze
> You’ll understand my not answering that just yet? I know 
that our leak’s been … dealt with … but I’m not in any 
shape to defend myself just now. I’ll say that I’m in the 
Southwest and leave it at that.
> Elijah
> When you need an extraction, I’ve got you covered. Gratis.
> 2XL
> So, here’s the million nuyen question: Was it worth it?
> Haze
> I’ll let you judge yourself when the paper hits peer 
review. Looking over the notes I sent you is just painful 
to read now. They’re jumbled, out of sorts, lacking proper 
attribution and footnotes—academics would dismiss 
these rambles without even consideration. Getting things 
together properly will take months. Still, I’m glad that the 
data got out. If the worst would have happened, I needed 
this to get out. 
> Elijah
> I appreciate the risk and all, but honestly, most of this is 
information that we could have gathered up on our own, 
over time. Where’s that Elijah I used to know? The one with 
cutting-edge theories and who talks about angles that no 
one else perceives? Surely this isn’t the whole of it.
> Winterhawk
> Wait. You knew this drek already?
> Riot
> Elijah?
> Winterhawk
> Butch? Can you check his vitals remotely?
> Winterhawk
> No need. I’m here. I was just. That is. <sigh> T h e r e ’ s 
one part I haven’t detailed yet.
> Elijah
> Here we go. 
> Glitch
> The entire reason I was down in the Rio Gambit 
territory was to get my astral eyes on the prize. In 
this case, that’s the fovae, magical nullspace that’s 
only been found in Aztlan. I can confirm that they’re 
real, which we essentially knew. They’re not mana 
voids, or at least they aren’t in the traditional way. 
Magical energies that enter them are snuffed out, and 
paranormal animals that are forced into them don’t 
die as they would in a true magic vacuum. Instead, 
they lose their paranormal abilities while they’re in 
them. Spirits won’t go in them no matter how well 
bound, but elementals will.
> Elijah
> What happens?
> Winterhawk
> They get pulled through and vanish. No matter how 
large the elemental, no matter how small the fovae, 
the elemental just … breaks apart… and the pieces are 
sucked through. It’s so fast that you can barely process 
it, and you can’t see the damn hole that they fall through. 
From a distance, it’s the same as everything else, both in 
the material world and the astral, but when a spell hits it? 
Poof. Gone.
> Elijah
> That eradication of magic is expected from a mana void, 
but it should kill the paracritter. I’m puzzled.
> The Smiling Bandit
> Well, I wasn’t worried before, but if Smiling Bandit’s at a 
loss for words, I’m fraggin’ terrified.
> Bull
> The magic isn’t eradicated.
> Elijah
> Say on …
> Winterhawk
> It’s moved. I want to say “flushed. ” It leaves here and goes 
somewhere else, akin to a metaplane but different. If an 
astral form glances it, your perception goes wonky for 
an hour or two and you won’t really understand what 
happened, but you don’t die. You can even switch to astral 
perception inside of one and you won’t empty out like you 
do in a true void. It feels like you’re being sucked out of 
your body through your eyeballs, but you’re still inside 
your body, so you don’t leave, but …
> Elijah
> Wait. You didn’t try that, did you?
> Winterhawk
> Elijah?
> Winterhawk
> … you did, didn’t you?
> Winterhawk
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
170    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 171 =====
> Yes.
> Elijah
> Jesus
> Winterhawk
> Is that bad?
> Riot
> In a mana void, where there’s no astral energy, the empty 
space is “hungry, ” for lack of a better word. Turn your 
astral energies on inside of one, they get torn from your 
body. Think of what happens when a person goes into the 
vacuum of space in their birthday suit. 
> Jimmy No
> Pop.
> Riot
> Right. Pop. Only in space, it takes a while. You have a 
minute, give or take, to get back inside before the damage 
is too great. Turns out that skin and meat are both quite 
good at keeping your important bits inside where they 
belong. Amusingly, if you hold your breath, you’re in 
greater danger than if you exhale. There’s … well, I’m 
going into lecture mode. The important thing to remember 
that, in space, the metahuman body has a small window. 
For the astral form, lacking any of that protective shell, the 
situation is dire.
> The Smiling Bandit
> Measured in nanoseconds.
> Winterhawk
> Ghost! 
> Riot
> For the record, it wasn’t as bad as when my astral form 
dove in.
> Elijah
> !!!
> Winterhawk
> In the name of scien—
> Elijah
> HELL NO.
> Haze
> There’s no record of—
> Elijah
> THERE’S A REASON FOR THAT!
> Winterhawk
> Calm down, everyone. He broke every rule of research 
with this, but if I can mix my metaphors, it’s too late to 
appeal to reason after Doctor Marshall has injected 
himself with the serum. All we can do now is record the 
results.
> The Smiling Bandit
> I don’t condone this.
> Winterhawk
> I didn’t ask you to.
> Elijah
> You can talk about it later. For now, Bandit’s right. What 
did you learn, Elijah?
> Glitch
> It was hard to handle when it happened, and once you 
add the drugs and the alcohol, the pain medication …
> Elijah
> Stop stalling.
> Haze
> There was something there.
> Elijah
> So, they’re gateways to the metaplanes after all?
> Haze
> Yes. No. Maybe. It’s like a one-way mirror, but not.
> Elijah
> No pressure, Elijah. You can write it up in more detail later.
> Bull
> No! No, it … I can’t. Every day, it fades. Some of it’s burned 
into my retina and I can never unsee it, but most of it gets 
further away. Like a dream, but … if I don’t get this out, 
I might swallow it all. There’s something on the far side, 
a metaplane, but not. There’s a pathway, but it’s blocked. 
It feels like a membrane, but my mind constructed it as 
a sort of canyon, if that makes sense. A canyon with the 
astral on one side, with me, and I could feel the other 
metaplanes, the more traditional ones, beside me, but 
across that canyon was something else. Something alien. 
> Elijah
> Oh drek.
> Bull
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    171
===== PDF PAGE IDX 172 =====
> Whatever it was, I can’t even … eyeballs. Eyeballs and 
teeth and tendrils and … it… the shapes. There aren’t 
words for the shapes, but I remember the eyes. I’ll always 
remember the eyes. And it talked.
> Elijah
> Was there a bridge?
> Bull
> Yes! But it was broken. That’s the thing. Whatever was on 
the other side couldn’t reach the bridge. It couldn’t repair 
it, it couldn’t approach it, but I could. It wanted me to do 
so. It made offers … knowledge. So much knowledge …
> Elijah
> Drek drek drek
> Bull
> Something you want to share with the class, Bull?
> Glitch
> Gotta call Frosty.
> Bull
> ADMIN BULL HAS LOGGED OUT
> Well this went from interesting to very interesting! 
Popcorn?
> Haze
> For the record, thanks to Glitch, I can get some readings 
from here. Elijah, I’m not happy with your heart rate 
or your blood pressure right now. Have you had your 
medicine?
> Butch
> Later! Later, I swear. This needs to be said before I forget. 
Please, a moment.
> Elijah
> ADMIN BULL HAS LOGGED IN
> USER FROSTY HAS LOGGED IN
> Well, this should b-
> Haze
> USER ORANGE QUEEN HAS LOGGED IN
> USER WORDSMYTH HAS LOGGED IN
> … oh shit.
> Haze
> USER LAUGHING MAN HAS LOGGED IN
> OH SHIT
> Haze
> This is a most unexpected invite, Mr. McAllister. My dear 
former apprentice was ever so insistent that I—
> The Laughing Man
> Frag you now and forever. I’ll bathe in your blood later 
you bastard, but this? You need to hear this.
> Bull
> So many things I was offered, if only I’d help repair the 
bridge. Others had been there, others had lifted a rock 
here, a rope there, but they were only small steps of a 
marathon. They needed so much work to repair the bridge 
and they had time, they had so much time, but they were 
also wanting to cross sooner. They can’t. They have to be 
invited. They have to be reached by us, they can’t do it 
themselves. They need our help, but they can help us. 
They can send things. Knowledge. Whispers. Power. 
Answers. So many answers to so many questions!
> Elijah
> Can anyone tell me what this is all about?
> Glitch
> Silence! This is a thing which should not be!
> Wordsmyth
> Motherfucker, you’re going to tell me to shut up? In my 
house?!
> Glitch
> Stand down! Glitch, please. You don’t know how much 
this is costing me.
> Bull
> You’re paying them?
> Glitch
> No, but there’s a debt. Long story. Tell you later. Just … 
stand down, okay?
> Bull
> Daaaaaaamn.
> Haze
> The bridge. How far did it go?
> The Laughing Man
> The bridge? It’s hard…. My eyes were closed, my hands 
over my ears but I could still hear… I could still see …
> Elijah
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
172    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 173 =====
> How many steps?
> Wordsmyth
> Four. Four steps.
> Elijah
> That is more than two, Laughing Man.
> Wordsmyth
> But how many were there before?
> The Laughing Man
> Too many.
> Bull
> This one has seen the bridge?
> Wordsmyth
> One of them.
> The Laughing Man
> And it cost me my brother.
> Bull
> I’m so sorry.
> Frosty
> Did you repair the bridge?
> Wordsmyth
> Why the frag would think that?
> Bull
> Not you. Him.
> The Laughing Man
> I … don’t … it’s so hard to focus …
> Elijah
> You must! Did. You. Make. Any. Repairs.
> Wordsmyth
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    173
===== PDF PAGE IDX 174 =====
> No. There was so much knowledge there, so many 
answers, but … the rope was made of entrails and the 
rocks were skulls. I couldn’t …
> Elijah
> Then there’s salvation possible for you. I will come to you 
soon, Elijah. Help is on the way. 
> The Laughing Man
> Impossible. No one knows where I am.
> Elijah
> Difficult is not impossible, only difficult. Wordsmyth. 
Frosty. Mr. McAllister. *tips hat*
> The Laughing Man
> USER LAUGHING MAN HAS DISCONNECTED
> Elijah? I need you to look up for a moment. Look up, and 
think of your shoes.
> Wordsmyth
> What?
> Elijah
> Look up and think of your shoes. What color are they?
> Wordsmyth
> White. I had to buy new ones after the last ones were 
ruined form the mud. Those were quality boots.
> Elijah
> What the hell? Vitals just dropped halfway to normal.
> Butch
> If you’d like to keep it that way, avoid this topic for the 
next day or so. Once Laughing Man arrives, your friend 
will recover completely. For now, he needed to think 
about something mundane to bring his mind back from 
somewhere it has no business being.
> Wordsmyth
> What the hell is going on?
> Glitch
> USER WORDSMYTH HAS DISCONNECTED
> Sorry guys. There are rules.
> Frosty
> USER FROSTY HAS DISCONNECTED
> Can I tell you how happy I am to be here right now?
> Haze
> Listen, my head’s back for a minute, but here’s the thing. 
I mentioned I couldn’t trust Universal Magic Theory 
anymore?
 > Elijah
> More important things are brewing.
> Winterhawk
> I’ll deal with that, but you have to listen. The core tenet of 
UMT is that all magic flows from the same source. That 
astral energies are formed by living beings, and all of 
us—hermetics, shamans, voodoo, psionics, whatever—
draw our power from the same place. It’s wrong. There 
are other places. Deep in the metaplanes, not connected 
to us at all, not connected to astral space, full of inhuman 
things, inhuman shapes, inhuman thoughts. Magic can 
come from other sources.
> Elijah
> Impossible.
> Haze
> There are reports of mundanes being discovered to have 
magic later, but they were considered to have always 
had the Talent, just having been missed in testing. A 
few have later been discovered to be the result of spirit 
pacts, but even then, that’s an astral construct. It falls 
inside the paradigm.
> Winterhawk
> There are some insect shamans that were mundane. 
They received power from the Queens. I’d always 
thought it was a spirit pact, but maybe this is bigger 
than that?
> Haze
> Yes. The power’s there, but they have trouble connecting 
to us. It’s too far to reach. Someone has to step near 
enough that they can speak to them. Once they have one, 
then they can bring others. I don’t know how many can go 
there. I got lucky.
> Elijah
> Unlucky.
> Haze
> There’re more places. The bridges were destroyed more 
than twenty years ago. Or, well, one was. There were 
supposed to be others, but I only saw the one.
> Bull
> This is going to be a great story.
> Haze
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
174    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 175 =====
> Later. For now, I have to get the taste of asking that bastard 
for help out of my mouth. Elijah, you good? Wiz.
> Bull
> ADMIN BULL HAS LOGGED OUT
> There’s a lot to unpack here, Elijah, and I’m not 
feeling confident. Send me your location. We need 
to talk in person.
> Winterhawk
> Yes. No. Maybe. I need some time. Help is on the way.
> Elijah
> I don’t trust him. Let me at least join you astrally. I can be 
there in five minutes. 
> Winterhawk
> Shit. Injured rolling in. Riot? We gotta roll.
> Butch
> Hai, sensei.
> Riot
> USER BUTCH HAS LOGGED OUT
> USER RIOT HAS LOGGED OUT
> Actually, I’m going to close this down. Last time those 
damn pointy-eared bastards dropped in, they rebooted 
the place in the process. I want to make sure these files 
get saved. Everybody out.
> Glitch
> Elijah?
> Winterhawk
> Check your PMs.
> Elijah
> USER WINTERHAWK HAS LOGGED OUT
> USER ELIJAH HAS LOGGED OUT
> USER 2XL HAS LOGGED OUT
> Thank you for a very enlightening evening, everyone. I 
need to make certain I’m on certain mailing lists. Taa!
> The Smiling Bandit
> USER THE SMILING BANDIT HAS LOGGED OUT
> Save, reboot, and restart on the way once I get into 
command.
> Glitch
> ADMIN GLITCH HAS LEFT THIS NODE
> Well damn. Guess I’ll turn out the lights.
> Haze
> <munching animation> Who made this Slamm-0!-brand 
popcorn?  It’s delicious.
> Orange Queen
> Right. No one will believe this.
> Haze
WILD  
SUMMONING RULES
While wild spirits follow most spirit rules, there 
are a few exceptions listed below. An important 
note is that the rules embody what is known in 
the magical community as of 2079. Wild spirits 
are not yet fully understood, and as research con-
tinues, more types may be discovered and for -
merly unknown abilities or restrictions may make 
themselves known. Feel free to create your own 
wild spirits in your game using the ones shown 
here as a guide. 
WILD REPUTATION
While Astral Reputation (p. 207, Street Grimoire) 
can tell you how notorious you are in the spirit 
world, your Wild Reputation will tell you how re-
spected you are by wild spirits. Your Wild Reputa-
tion is based on both how well you treat the astral 
world and how well you combat the corrupted 
aspects of it, such as toxic spirits. It’s important 
to note that characters will accrue a reputation 
whether they know it or not, and that word in the 
astral travels both quickly and widely. Those who 
are friendly will find themselves welcomed with 
open arms, while those who are known to abuse 
spirits or harm the environment will find them-
selves with a far more Faustian welcome. 
The following chart is a guideline for the Wild 
Index, which is the basis of a Wild Reputatiom 
and a tool for the gamemaster to track characters’ 
stats. Gamemasters have final say in how the in-
dex is applied; if they feel that the action under -
taken is taking advantage of the system, rather 
than accurately reflecting the in-game world, they 
should feel free to deny any bonuses to the char -
acter seeking an advantage.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    175
===== PDF PAGE IDX 176 =====
ACCRUING WILD INDEX
The following actions increase a character’s Wild 
Index by the listed amount. A character may not 
increase their Wild Index with the same action 
within a single twenty-four hour period.
• Disrupting a toxic spirit: That spirits’ Force
• Destroying disrupted toxic spirit in its na-
tive metaplane: That spirit’s Force x 2
• Cleansing disrupted toxic spirit: That spirit’s 
Force x 3
• Destroying a toxic power site: That power 
site’s Rating x 5
• Cleansing a toxic power site: That power 
site’s Rating x 10
• Releasing a spirit with services remaining: 
1 per service lost
• Banishing a spirit controlled by a mage: 2 
per service lost
• Temporarily awakening a slumbering wild 
spirit: 1
• Permanently awakening a slumbering wild 
spirit: That spirit’s Force
• Creating an ally spirit: That spirit’s Force 
• Willingly setting an ally spirit free: That spir-
it’s Force x 3
• Successfully calling a wild spirit: 1
• Accepting a spirit marker: (Spirit marker’s Rating)
• Breaking a spirit marker: Subtract twice 
what was gained
• Binding a spirit of any kind: Subtract that 
spirit’s Force
• Bringing toxicity to a natural area: –1
• Bringing toxicity to a power site: Subtract 
that power site’s Rating
• Turning a spirit toxic: Subtract that spirit’s 
Force x 2
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
176    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 177 =====
• Destroying a power site: Subtract that pow-
er site’s Rating x 5
• Turning a power site toxic: Subtract that 
power site’s Rating x 10
The gamemaster is encouraged to keep a char-
acter’s Wild Index secret until its effects begin to 
impact gameplay.
WILD REPUTATION
A character’s Wild Reputation begins at 0. For ev -
ery 25 points of Wild Index a character accumu-
lates, their Wild Reputation increases by 1. When 
calling a wild spirit or conducting interactions 
with wild spirits that require social skills a char -
acter gains a positive dice pool modifier equal to 
his Wild Reputation.  
A character can reduce their Astral Reputation 
by permanently sacrificing 2 points of Wild Repu-
tation for every point of Astral Reputation. 
CALLING WILD SPIRITS
Wild spirits may not be Conjured in the tra-
ditional way. They exist where they will and 
cannot be forced into service so casually by 
metahumans, but they may be called. Calling a 
Wild Spirit may be done in one of two ways. 
The first is to attempt to force them to appear 
via Conjuring. This is an Opposed Test using 
Summoning + Magic [Force] vs. the Wild Spir -
it’s Force, requiring a number of hits equal to (1 
+ Summoner’s Astral Reputation) to succeed. 
If the required number of hits are generated, 
the spirit appears, but it owes the summoner 
no services; it is simply present. The summoner 
may then address it as they choose. The second 
way is to travel to a location where a wild spir -
it is present and attempt to catch its interest. 
The social skills of Con, Etiquette, Negotiation, 
and Performance are all applicable, requiring 
a number of hits equal to the spirit’s Force to 
cause it to appear to see what this mortal is all 
about. Intimidation may also be used with a 
similar target, but a success will cause the spirit 
to see the intimidator as a worthy foe, and it 
will be looking for a challenge when it appears. 
Lastly, a character may sacrifice 1 Karma, either 
with a small bit of their own personal matter 
(blood, hair, flesh) or while feeling strong emo-
tion (hate, fear, grief), which will always attract 
the spirit’s interest.
Regardless of the method used, if a wild spirit 
is not near the character attempting to call it, no 
spirit will appear. 
Wild spirits are most often found around power 
sites, finding the area pleasing and drawing a level 
of sustenance from it. Others will claim their own 
astral territory, with more powerful spirits claiming 
a larger territory. A Force 1 spirit’s territory could 
be as small as the space beneath a child’s bed or a 
mushroom ring in the woods, a Force 3 spirit’s as 
large as an apartment, garage, or clearing in the 
woods, while a Force 6 spirit could claim an en-
tire apartment complex, the sewers of a city block, 
or a peaceful lake or hill in the countryside. The 
gamemaster has full control on whether a wild 
spirit is present or not. Rumors of where a spirit 
is frequently seen can serve as an adventure to 
find such an area where a wild spirit might be met, 
called, and related to in the future. Areas that have 
been touched by the Yellowstone Incident are 
positively crawling with wild spirits, while mana 
ebbs or voids are devoid of any.
DEALING WITH  
WILD SPIRITS
Unlike ordinary spirits, wild spirits are not behold-
en to any magician and have their own agenda, 
be it as simple as frolic in the sunlight or as com-
plex as masterminding an expansion of corporate 
influence. Each wild spirit should be treated as an 
NPC in their own right, with wants, desires, and 
fears, and they should display all the agency that 
comes with these traits. The spirit will be willing to 
make deals, as long as it gets something in return, 
but it may value things in a way different than a 
metahuman. Deals are considered made when a 
wild spirit generates a spirit marker with some-
one. While the currency of choice when dealing 
with the spirit world is Karma (which always bears 
a small token cost of physical, emotional, or men-
tal material), most are willing to bargain for other 
things. Some are fond of physical material, such 
as sugar and tobacco often coveted by Caribbean 
spirits of man. Reagents are useful almost all any -
where in the world, while some spirits are fond 
of tasks, such as destroying a nearby toxic spirit 
or preventing a local garden from being paved 
over, while others have more exotic desires. Wild 
Spirits are perfectly willing and able to walk away 
from a deal and may be insulted if not given the 
respect they feel they deserve. In general, a wild 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    177
===== PDF PAGE IDX 178 =====
spirit negotiates to discharge a debt first, get 
something it wants second, and to teach some-
one a better way to behave third. 
A spirit marker comes with a Rating from 1 to 
6. This spirit marker is linked to both the charac-
ter and spirit’s astral signature, and each party is 
always aware of how many services are remain-
ing via the marker and whether the deal has been 
broken. A wild spirit is always considered present 
with anyone who holds a spirit marker with it and 
may be called as normal. A wild spirit decides 
what Rating of a spirit marker it will offer, which 
is usually equal to the character’s Wild Reputation 
+ 1. A character may negotiate for a larger spirit 
marker, but the spirit may refuse. A character may 
also negotiate for a smaller spirit marker, but they 
know that this is often seen as insulting to the spir-
it. A spirit marker requires that the character buy 
it, in effect trading a Service for a “service,” with 
the spirit usually setting a price in terms of what 
the character must do, but a character may sug-
gest similar payment using the guidelines shown 
below. The gamemaster, as always, is the final ar -
bitrator of what’s a fair deal.
An offering of Karma equal to the wild spirit’s 
Force, or a matching value in material goods that 
the spirit enjoys, is usually appropriate and cer -
tainly acceptable for a Rating 1 or 2 marker. 
A Status can take many forms. Ultimately it’s 
an agreement between the character and the spirit 
to either undertake a type of behavior or to avoid 
one for the duration of the agreement. This Status 
is never the sort that would end a life, such as not 
eating or drinking for a year, but are intended to 
showcase the character’s obligation and implied 
veneration of the spirit. Openly wearing a token of 
a beast spirit (tooth or feather, for example) when 
in public, greeting the sunrise with a loud song, 
never harming a certain type of animal (popular 
with both beasts of prey animals and vermin), or 
never talking above a whisper are all appropriate 
for Rating 1 or 2 markers, while larger markers are 
more demanding. To not cut your nails or hair is 
fitting for a Rating 4, for example; other possibili-
ties are to not eat meat (including faux meat, like a 
soyburger), or to paint one’s face blue for the dura-
tion. An even larger marker could require the char-
acter to tattoo themselves with the spirit’s chosen 
glyph, only walk backwards, or to never bathe. 
This kind of Status has led to unusual behavior in 
mystics throughout history and a study of these 
mannerisms from Wujen, shamans, and more can 
give you many more examples. More powerful 
spirits will, of course, ask for greater boons in re-
turn for their favor.
In return, the wild spirit can be asked to perform 
a service, as if it were a bound spirit. It should be 
reminded that anyone, magician or not, may call a 
spirit and negotiate for a spirit marker. It’s entirely 
possible for a street gang member that’s wearing 
a dog collar around his neck is friends with a lo-
cal wild dog spirit and can call on them for help, 
or that a scared child could attract the notice of a 
powerful spirit that will trade her tears in exchange 
for destroying the scary people hurting her fami-
ly in the next room. Some wild spirits are noble, 
some sinister, and a wise person will get to know 
one before entering agreements.
Let the buyer beware.
WILD SPIRIT RULES
Wild spirits follow the rules for the type of ordinary 
spirit that they reflect (air, land, etc.), unless other-
wise noted. Wild spirits can never be Summoned.
Wild spirits can be attacked with the Banishing 
skill. This is a Complex Action, making an Opposed 
Test of Banishing + Magic [Astral] versus the wild 
spirit’s Force x 2. Add the number of net hits the 
banisher gets to the total he already had (starting 
at 0); when this total equals or exceeds the wild 
spirit’s Force x 2 roll, the spirit is disrupted. The 
Drain Value for this attempt is equal to the number 
WILD SPIRIT SERVICE TABLE
RATING SERVICE
1 A Performance requiring a number of hits equal 
to the wild spirit’s Force. A Status for twenty-four 
hours. Future favor.
2 A Status for a week. An immediate favor.
3 A Status for a month. Permanently awakening a 
slumbering wild spirit.
4 A Status for a year and a day. Arranging a 
temporary power site creation or attuning an 
existing one to wild.
5 A Status for life. Creating, then setting free, an ally 
spirit. Destroying a toxic power site.
6 Creating a permanent power site. Cleansing a toxic 
power site.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
178    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 179 =====
of hits (not net hits) on the spirit’s final Defense 
test, with a minimum Drain Value of 2. If the spirit’s 
Force is greater than the banisher’s Magic rating, 
the drain is physical; otherwise its Stun. 
If a wild spirit is disrupted, for the remainder of 
this round and until the end of the Banisher’s next 
action, a magician, including the banisher, can at-
tempt to bind the wild spirit in order to force it into 
serving them and generating services as per a nor-
mal binding attempt. It doesn’t matter what type of 
spirit it is or what tradition the binder uses in this 
case. Wild spirits bound in this way are as furious 
about the situation as they are helpless to do any-
thing about it. If the spirit has a domain, this bound 
state continues if the binder leaves the spirit’s do-
main, but the spirit cannot leave the area, nor may 
it be summoned to another. It will simply wait, fum-
ing, until the binder returns to command it again. 
When the binder’s services expire, the wild spirit 
will be certain to look for opportunities to repay the 
magician for the treatment they received.
WILD NATURE SPIRITS
Wild nature spirits have the Domain quality. In 
return, they gain one additional Optional Power 
from their usual list.
WILD BEAST SPIRITS
Wild beast spirits are the most diverse type of wild 
spirit, and you should take time to adjust them in 
a way fitting for the type of beast that they em-
body. A beast spirit may take as many beast traits 
as its Force, but each may only be taken once un-
less otherwise noted. These beast traits help de-
fine the spirit in a way that aligns with the animal 
it represents. As always, the gamemaster is the 
final arbitrator in what is, or isn’t, appropriate for 
a beast spirit to have. 
BEAST TRAITS
Large: +1 Body, –2 Reaction 
Powerful: +1 Strength, –2 Agility
Small: +1 Reaction, –2 Body
Quick: +1 Agility, –2 Strength
Beautiful: +1 Charisma, –2 Logic
Wise: +1 Logic, –2 Charisma
Clever: +1 Intuition, –2 Willpower
Noble: +1 Willpower, –2 Intuition
Aggressive: +1 Power on Natural Weapon or 
Unarmed Combat
Vicious: –4 AP on Natural Weapon or Unarmed 
Combat
Durable: +3 physical damage boxes
King: +3 Charisma when using the Animal 
Control power.
Keen: +4 Magic for using the Search power.
Sneaky: +3 Magic for using the Concealment 
power on itself only.
Deadly: +2 Magic for using the Venom power.
The exact combinations will depend on the 
type of beast the spirit reflects. A wild beast spir -
it (rat) might take Small, Quick, Clever, Sneaky, or 
King, for instance, while a wild beast spirit (owl) 
might take Wise and Sneaky. 
A wild beast spirit may trade two traits for a 
new skill if it’s appropriate. A wild spirit (beaver) 
might take the Crafting skill, for instance, but not 
Repair Ground Vehicles or Automatics. 
A wild beast spirit may also trade two traits to add 
an appropriate Power to the Optional Powers line, 
but it must still buy those powers as usual. (A spir-
it gains 1 optional power per 3 Force.) A wild beast 
spirit (rat) could add Pestilence (p. 197 Street Grimoire) 
to its optional powers, but an owl could not. 
Traits, skills, and Optional Powers allow you to 
construct wild beast spirits that are closer to the way 
animals in assorted regions are perceived, making 
a Chinese rat quite different from a British one.
WILD SPIRITS OF MAN
Like wild nature spirits, wild spirits of man have 
the Domain quality and gain one additional op-
tional power. Wild spirits of man are easier to 
find, due to their domains being rather clearly 
defined in the material world, and their effective 
reach is similarly known. Corporate spirits, in par -
ticular, can never cross from areas clearly flagged 
DOMAIN QUALITY
A spirit with the Domain quality is bound to a location by 
their nature and may not leave it, but they may move between 
the material and astral versions of that spot as normal. If 
disrupted, the spirit lingers in an immaterial state in the astral, 
rather than travel to a demiplane, and it may be destroyed 
there as if it was on its home plane. When using the Accident, 
Guard, or Search powers, use the spirit’s Magic x 2, rather 
than Magic x 1 as normal.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    179
===== PDF PAGE IDX 180 =====
as belonging to their corporation of choice. The 
easy way to remember is if it’s extraterritorial, it’s 
in their domain. 
WILD URBAN SPIRITS
CERAMIC SPIRITS
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F F+1 F+2 F F F F F F/2 F F
Initiative ((F x 2) +2) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Exotic Ranged 
Weapon, Perception, Unarmed Combat
Powers Astral Form, Concealment, Confusion, Engulf, 
Materialization, Movement, Sapience, Search
Optional Powers Accident, Binding, Elemental Attack, Energy Aura, 
Enhanced Senses (Enhanced Vision), Guard, Skill 
(choose an appropriate technical skill)
METAL SPIRITS 
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+4 F-2 F-1 F+4 F F-1 F F F/2 F F
Initiative ((F x 2) – 1) +2D6
Astral Initiative (F x2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Exotic Ranged 
Weapon, Perception, Unarmed Combat
Powers Astral Form, Binding, Guard, Materialization, 
Movement, Sapience, Search
Optional Powers Concealment, Confusion, Engulf, Elemental 
Attack, Fear
ENERGY SPIRITS 
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+1 F+2 F+3 S–2 F F F+1 F F/2 F F
Initiative ((F x 2) + 3) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Exotic Ranged 
Weapon, Flight, Perception, Unarmed Combat
Powers Accident, Astral Form, Confusion, Elemental 
Attack, Energy Aura, Engulf, Materialization, 
Sapience
Optional Powers Fear, Guard, Noxious Breath, Search
Weaknesses Allergy (Water, Severe)
AIRWAVE SPIRITS 
VEHICLE SPIRITS
The nature of vehicle spirits makes them more 
comfortable traveling well-worn paths rather than 
branching out to new locations. When they are 
seen in the wild, they typically are traveling paths 
familiar to their type of vehicle, and left to their own 
devices they would likely continue following those 
paths. The result of this is that vehicle spirits are 
treated as having a version of the Home Ground 
(The Transporter) quality, only with a penalty for 
operating in unfamiliar environments. When oper-
ating in their their selected neighborhood, vehicle 
spirits receive +2 dice on both Evasion tests and 
Pilot tests for their vehicle type. When operating 
outside their Home Ground, though, they receive 
–2 dice on those tests. They may gain extra abili-
ties in this area if they have the Haunt power (p. 
192, Howling Shadows).
Vehicle spirits also tend to be somewhat sim-
ple-minded. While this can be a relief to summon-
ers, in that they can sometimes avoid the arguments 
or debates that other spirits may engage in, they do 
not have a significant amount of creativity to apply 
to the services they are given, which means instruc-
tions for them must be clearly spelled out.
VEHICLE SPIRIT POWERS
Vehicle spirits have a few additional powers 
available to them: Evasion, Maneuvering, and 
Stealth. These function like the autosofts of the 
same name (p. 269, SR5), with a Rating equal to 
the spirit’s Force. There is no separate Targeting 
power for vehicle spirits; any vehicle spirits with 
the Natural Weapon critter power are assumed 
to have the Targeting power equal to their Force, 
and this is what they use to fire the weapon, rath-
er than the Exotic Ranged Weapon skill. When 
vehicle spirits have a Natural Weapon, it is a fire-
arm with the typical stats for that weapon. Listed 
with the Natural Weapon is the type of weapon it 
should be; gamemasters may select which weap-
on from that class is used.
SHIP SPIRITS 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
180    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+2 F+3 F+4 F–3 F F F F F/2 F F
Initiative ((F x 2) + 4 ) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Assensing, Astral Combat, Exotic Ranged 
Weapon, Imitation, Perception, Running, 
Unarmed Combat
Powers Accident, Astral Form, Concealment, Confusion, 
Materialization, Sapience, Search
Optional Powers Elemental Attack, Energy Aura, Fear, Guard, 
Psychokinesis
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+4 F–1 F–1 F+2 F F–2 F F F/2 F F
Initiative ((F x 2) – 1) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Navigation, Perception, Pilot Watercraft, 
Survival, Swimming, Unarmed Combat
Powers Armor (F), Materialization, Sapience, Toughness
Optional Powers Aura Masking, Haunt, Natural Weapon (any 
Cannon or Launcher), Storm
===== PDF PAGE IDX 181 =====
TRAIN SPIRITS 
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+3 F–1 F–1 F+2 F+1 F–2 F F F/2 F F
Initiative ((F x 2) – 1) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Intimidation, Navigation, Perception, Pilot 
Ground Craft, Unarmed Combat
Powers Accident, Armor (F), Materialization, Sapience
Optional Powers Aura Masking, Haunt, Natural Weapon (any 
Cannon or Launcher), Reinforcement
AUTOMOTIVE SPIRITS 
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+1 F+2 F+1 F F F–2 F F F/2 F F
Initiative ((F x 2) + 1) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Navigation, Perception, Pilot Ground Craft, 
Running, Unarmed Combat
Powers Accident, Evasion, Maneuvering, Materialization, 
Sapience
Optional Powers Aura Masking, Haunt, Movement, Natural 
Weapon (any Machine Gun; motorcycles and 
lighter vehicles can only have LMGs)
AIRCRAFT SPIRITS 
B A R S W L I C EDG ESS M
F+2 F+1 F F+1 F F–2 F F F/2 F F
Initiative (F x 2) + 2D6
Astral Initiative (F x 2) + 3D6
Skills Free-fall, Navigation, Perception, Pilot Aircraft, 
Unarmed Combat
Powers Evasion, Maneuvering, Materialization, 
Sapience, Stealth
Optional Powers Aura Masking, Dive Attack, Haunt, Natural 
Weapon (any Cannon or Launcher), Search
AWAKENED VEHICLES
The spirit has the base abilities of a spirit of the 
type it is (automotive, ship, etc.), but is trapped as 
a dual-natured being, situated in the physical form 
of the vehicle it once was. In most cases, this will 
leave it immobile, or functionally so, but some ve-
hicles have Awakened while still fully functional. 
These vehicles may be as mobile as they would 
ordinarily be. Some display unusual spirit powers, 
such as a car with the ability to drive up walls or 
a ship that sails through sand, but these are quite 
rare (as always, the gamemaster has final say on 
designing these unique spirits).
HERMETIC ELEMENTALS
Mechanically, these are simply spirits of air, earth, 
fire, and water, with one modification: the Ele-
mental quality. Spirits with the Elemental quality 
have their mental attributes (Logic, Intuition, Cha-
risma, and Willpower) reduced by a number equal 
to half their Force (rounded down). So a Force 3 
elemental will have those attributes reduced by 
1, while a Force 6 Elemental will have those at-
tributes reduced by 3 (to a minimum adjusted 
attribute of 1, of course). Elementals are those 
slow-witted and poor thinkers who are prone to 
follow commands with little agency of their own. 
There are some benefits, however. Spirits with 
the Elemental quality are more easily bound, with 
any Summoning or Binding test that generates at 
least 1 service after being fully resolved gaining 
an additional service. Beyond this, actions taken 
on elementals never generates either Spirit Index 
or Wild Index, as they are loyal to a fault and do 
not spread information about their master. Lastly, 
in those areas where leashing is an issue, a spirit 
with the Elemental quality never tries to free itself 
from servitude. 
Elementals should be portrayed as stoic ser -
vitors of their master, following orders instantly 
and having no care for mistreatment or any desire 
to be more than a simple tool. Wild spirits regard 
them with pity and their masters with scorn, but 
to those who control them, only obedience truly 
matters and the thoughts of untamable wild spirits 
is of no concern. 
At character creation, any mage that can sum-
mon air, earth, fire, and water spirits may choose 
to be a hermetic elementalist, losing the ability to 
summon their fifth spirit, regardless of the type, 
but all spirits they do summon will have the Ele-
mental quality. Any other mage that can summon 
those four spirits may become a hermetic elemen-
talist via Paradigm Shift (p. 43) but will lose the 
ability to summon all other spirit types when they 
do so. When a mage is created as, or becomes, a 
hermetic elementalist, they gain an Astral Reputa-
tion score of 6. This may be reduced in the usual 
way. Taking Paradigm Shift again to leave this path 
will not reset their Astral Reputation, but it is the 
first step to take before they can. 
SPIRITS AS CONTACTS
It should be noted that free spirits and wild spir -
its may be taken as contacts, like any other NPC. 
They will be unwilling to provide services without 
payment but may be as friendly and as handy for 
information as any other. Upkeeping these con-
tacts will usually require a Spirit Marker, with a 
Rating equal to half their Connection rating, but 
this is required less often than a normal flesh-
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    181
===== PDF PAGE IDX 182 =====
and-blood contact, as simply being in their pres-
ence and talking generates low-level emotional 
energy that they absorb. 
A particularly fun version of this is a wild beast 
spirit in the form of the character’s Mentor, tak -
en with Connection 1 but Loyalty 6. This contact 
can serve as a spirit guide, appearing before the 
character to offer some cryptic advice or to talk 
through problems while not seeming to offer any 
material aid at all. In a dire situation, they might 
take physical action, but by far their preferred 
course of action is to nudge the character toward 
a path, then let them walk it on their own. 
OPTIONAL RULES
For those gamemasters that wish to see a more 
living world, here are some optional rules that 
you might add to your game to reflect these new 
spirit types and effects.
THE MENTOR’S MASK
Formerly known as the Shaman’s Mask, the Men-
tor’s Mask is a side effect that any magician with a 
Mentor spirit may chose. Once chosen, the mask is 
always in effect when they use magic and may not 
be switched off. A Mentor’s Mask is a side effect of 
using magic, bleeding some energy off to create an 
illusion of the character’s Mentor around them that 
can be seen on the material plane, making their 
magic more obvious but less taxing. Characters who 
have a Mentor’s Mask effect reduce all Drain by 1, 
but the threshold for noticing them using magic is 
lowered by 3 to a minimum of 1 (see p. 280, SR5). 
Adepts may also choose to have a Mentor’s 
Mask if they have a Mentor spirit, which they will 
manifest whenever using an adept power. An ad-
ept who chooses to have a mask gains 1 bonus 
Power Point but generate a mask whenever using 
any of their adept powers. The threshold for no-
ticing this effect is 6 – (4 x total Power Point cost 
of the power being used). Thus, a character using 
Critical Strike will have a threshold of (6 – (4 x 0.5)) 
or 4, while one using Improved Reflexes 2 will 
have a threshold of (6 – (4 x 2.5)) or 1 (which is the 
minimum for the threshold). 
The exact nature of the mask varies based on 
the character, but at a minimum a glowing version 
of the mentor’s head is imposed over the charac-
ter’s own (thus the “mask” name for the effect) but 
a second voice like the mentor’s cry, fur or feather 
markings across their body, illusory claws or talons 
on their limbs, and so forth are commonplace as 
the threshold lowers.
SPIRIT LEASHING
The connection between a controlled spirit and 
the controlled is called a leash. In most cases, this 
simply binds them together, and no real thought 
is ever given to it. In those areas touched by the 
Yellowstone Incident, however, spirits struggle 
against the leash with a desire to free. Gamemas-
ters who wish to restrict the use of spirits in their 
own games may also use these rules anywhere 
as the concept of going free spreads like wild-
fire through the spirit world. When summoning a 
spirit, or calling on the services of a bound spirit, 
a magician will need to determine if they keep 
the leash in a state of being slack or tight. On 
their turn, a magician may change the state to the 
other as a free action. 
When a spirit is controlled with a slack state, the 
controller pays it little mind and is not distracted. 
When a spirit is controlled in a tight state, keeping 
it under control counts against the magician in the 
same way as a sustained spell, a –2 penalty to all 
dice pools other than a Test the Leash roll.
TESTING THE LEASH
A spirit will sometimes Test the Leash, trying 
to see how tightly it is bound to service. Any 
time a spirit scores hits on a test equal to or 
greater than 6 – (Force/2), it Tests the Leash au-
tomatically. This means a Force 3 spirit will Test 
the Leash if it scores 5 hits or more on a test, 
while a Force 6 spirit will Test the Leash on only 
3 hits. When a spirit Tests the Leash, it rolls an 
Opposed Test pitting its Force x 2 against the 
controller’s usual Drain Resistance. For each net 
hit the controller scores, the spirit takes 1 Stun 
Damage. For each net hit the spirit scores, it 
erases 1 service. If the leash is being held tight-
ly, the controller may suffer one box of Stun 
damage per service that would be erased rath-
er than lose those services.  If the spirit’s Force 
is greater than the controller’s Magic, damage 
taken is Physical instead of Stun. 
If a spirit reduces its services owed to 0 in this 
way, it usually attempts to return to its native meta-
plane on its next turn. Those spirits that have been 
treated badly, or that are controlled by someone 
with an Astral Reputation of 4 or more, will instead 
attack their former controller. As a reminder, spir -
its with the Elemental quality never Test the Leash. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
182    WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 183 =====
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE    183
===== PDF PAGE IDX 184 =====
Alchemy is the amalgamation of primal mystical 
power and application of mana with the metic-
ulous research methodology of science. This 
mystical art is believed to have been discovered 
during the Fourth World by magicians on the is-
land of Thera, commonly known as Atlantis. The 
legends surrounding alchemy echoed in the hu-
man subconscious during the magical drought of 
the Fifth World, emboldening scholars to attempt 
to master the compound formula for transmuting 
lead into gold. These misguided would-be-magi-
cians, trapped in a dark age devoid of mana and 
magic, failed to comprehend the essence of this 
lost art. They falsely believed that alchemy was 
merely the ability to transmute substances from 
one form to another; a means to turn simple lead 
into precious gold. 
Mana naturally accumulates in plants, animals, 
objects, and places heavy with the weight of his-
tory. Alchemists harvest reagents from materials 
that have absorbed this ambient mana and refine 
them into mystical compounds and alchemical 
preparations to produce fantastic, otherworldly 
effects. Once a reagent is spent, the mana within 
dissipates, but the physical form remains, allowing 
an alchemist to harvest it later once it reabsorbs 
mana. The sad truth is most reagents are fairly 
common but take a good deal of time and skill to 
locate and harvest as needed. This process isn’t 
cheap or easy, which is why most magicians seek 
out common reagents at their local talismonger, 
preferring to pay for the time and expertise over 
the drudgery of doing it themselves. For more in-
formation about harvesting reagents, see p. 304, 
SR5, and p. 209, Street Grimoire.
With the proper time and material, an alche-
mist might brew a potion that extends a magi-
cian’s ability to astrally project, create a fetish 
that reduces drain when a specific spell is cast, 
or generate a manatech alchemical preparation 
that temporarily increases the limit of a weapon. 
The quality of a reagent is measured in terms of 
drams of orichalcum. Refined and radical reagents 
can increase the potency and duration of the fi-
nal product, and they can also decrease the drain 
cost for its creation. Once the proper formula has 
been discovered or learned, an alchemist might 
use a refined or radical reagent to create a mys-
tical compound or alchemical preparation that 
charges mundane objects to release stored spells 
when triggered, infuse a torch with an oil that will 
repel bug spirits when lit, or even brew a potion 
that will heal wounds or temporarily retard the ad-
vancement of mystical illnesses, such as the Hu-
man-Metahuman Vampiric Virus. For more infor -
mation about the quality of reagents, see p. 228,  
Street Grimoire; to explore new refined and radical 
reagents, see p. 187. 
A magician may use any reagent in a pinch, 
but if it isn’t directly from their magical tradition, 
then it only works at half-strength. For example, a 
hermetic alchemist can leverage a refined gris-gris 
bag, but it just doesn’t work as well. 
In the Sixth World, alchemy has once again 
captured humanity’s imagination. This time it 
isn’t gold for which they dream, but a cure to the 
plagues of the modern age, the promise of healthy 
life, and quick solutions for the elite who can af-
ford it. Local talismongers serve as the apothecar-
ies of ages past, curing those who can pay from 
the neighborhoods while the rich and elite pay for 
top corporate-generated formulas that keep them 
young and heathy. 
LIFE OF A 
CORPORATE 
ALCHEMIST
Once, alchemy was the sole dominion of the elite 
magicians who prepared their brews and com-
FORBIDDEN ARCANA
ADVANCED
ALCHEMY
184    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>

===== PDF PAGE IDX 185 =====
pounds solely for their own benefit or to serve 
wealthy patrons. The megacorporations sensed 
profit to be exploited and began to apply their 
vast resources and knowledge of mass produc-
tion to push talismonger shops to the edges of 
society. Why go through the hassle of harvest-
ing a common reagent yourself, or pay an unsa-
vory middleman when you can purchase from 
a trusted corporation that offers a warranty on 
their products made to special order? Most folks 
ignore the rumors about the corporations over -
harvesting Native land for the mana to produce 
alchemical preparations that line the shelves of 
expensive boutique stores promising youth, vig-
or, and extended life.
Discovering a new formula that remixes stan-
dard reagents into new, exciting compounds is a 
matter of the inspiration of genius mixed in with 
countless research hours and resources. It might 
not be easy to purchase inspiration or genius, but 
when you have unlimited nuyen to throw at a pet 
project, anything becomes possible. Those with 
magical talent and the scientific bent often have 
a strong independent streak, but corporate head-
hunters get big bonuses for finding young hope-
fuls with a lack of education and dire economic 
straits. With their heads filled with promises of a 
bright, upwardly mobile future, these poor bas-
tards get roped into indentured servitude, hocking 
their potential for a comfortable present.
Corporate life feels like heaven to the con-
scripts from the wilds until the alchemists learn 
propriety information in terms of formulas or in-
formation about rare reagents. Success comes 
at a steep price for the corporate alchemist. The 
research and development of a new alchemical 
compound might cost millions of nuyen, but once 
the formula has been peer reviewed and can be 
duplicated for mass production, the actual cost for 
the final product might be relatively minuscule. If 
another alchemist—or worse, a rival corporation—
learns this formula, millions could be lost. Thus, 
the secrets of these formulas must be protected 
at all costs. 
A good alchemist is as much an artist as a sci-
entist, and that perfect storm is hard to cultivate. 
Good corporate citizens understand that privacy 
is sometimes a luxury that must be denied to pro-
tect corporate assets. 
MANATECH: RISKS 
AND REWARDS
Manatech is the catch-all term to describe the al-
chemical processes that bridge the gap between 
technology and magic. This encompasses all 
spells and alchemical compounds that directly 
affect tech and machines (positively and nega-
tively) to devices specifically engineered to en-
hance the use or creation of magic. Where there 
is nuyen to be made or power to be had, both 
runners and corporations will spare no expense 
and risk anything to remain on the cutting edge.
LIVING AS A CORPORATE ALCHEMIST
POSTED BY: MEGALITH
Life as a corporate alchemist was sweet and easy. So long 
as I produced and didn’t ask too many questions, they gave me 
anything I wanted. And once I settled down and had a family, 
they owned me and anything I created for them. Worst part 
was that life was so easy I’d still be there, if my son hadn’t 
contracted HMHVV on a stupid teenage joy-ride out into the 
barrens. We had a compound that would have prevented him 
from turning, but corporate insurance didn’t cover it. I wanted to 
research a cure, but that wasn’t profitable, so I defected. And I 
hope to find him one day and take revenge on the bastards who 
wouldn’t help him.
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    185

===== PDF PAGE IDX 186 =====
Mixing magic and technology can bring great 
rewards. Ask any spell slinger if they haven’t con-
sidered an upgrade to their senses or body, and 
they will tell you the same thing. Sometimes it’s 
worth the damage, but it better be important. In-
corporating technology into the body of a magi-
cian or adept affects their Essence, the source of 
their magic. The more extensive the cyberware, 
the deeper the impact on the Essence of the ma-
gician or adept. While the more cutting edge and 
expensive versions of cyberware, or even bioware, 
can mitigate this damage, nothing can ever elim-
inate it completely. The same holds true for the 
effect of magic on technology. The more magic in 
an area, the more ambient noise. This can, in some 
instances, impact how technology works, making 
it more difficult to access the Matrix. 
Alchemists are unfortunate in that they suffer 
in both these instances. Heavy use of magic can 
affect the tech they use to enhance their creations, 
just as too much tech can influence the potency of 
their creations. As such, they are very careful on 
what combinations they use. The key seems to be 
using tech to assist in the creation of their project, 
or as the target, but rarely both. Tools such as the 
crucible, vault of ages, or alembic are all examples 
of ways that clever alchemists have managed to 
leverage the power of technology to create fast-
er and more powerful products. By ensuring that 
each aspect of the process is carefully balanced 
between magic and technology, powerful effects 
can be generated at low risk—something every tal-
ismonger or corporation will agree is always the 
best solution. The other option is to create magical 
compounds and preparations that have little tech 
involved in their creation, instead targeting tech-
nology itself through machines, the Matrix, or the 
cyberware of others. This tightrope is hard to walk, 
but alchemists are always willing to experiment. 
The risks and rewards of manatech are myri-
ad. Clever runners will maximize the power while 
minimizing the cost and risk, something even cor-
porations can agree is the ultimate strategy. The 
true power of manatech is the constant progress 
it inspires. Each blending of magic and technolo-
gy encourages others to take it to the next step. 
Go one further. Make it better, faster, or cheaper. 
The constant need sustains this continuing state of 
progress to remain one step ahead, staying clear 
of those who are right behind, waiting for a single 
mistake. 
NEW SPELL: ALTER BALLISTICS
(MANIPULATION, PHYSICAL)
 Type: P Range: T
 Duration: I Drain: (F – 2)
The Alter Ballistics spell is a spell unique to the Alchemical 
Armorer that allows them to alter the ballistic properties of 
bullets or add helpful effects like noise reduction. This spell 
only works as an alchemical preparation that uses a bullet 
as the lynchpin. Bullets used as a lynchpin may only be fired 
by Single Shot weapons. The preparation must be activated 
before it is fired or the lynchpin will be destroyed by firing the 
bullet. When using a command trigger, a character may choose 
to activate a single preparation normally (with a Simple Action) 
or any number of bullets (including all of them) at a time with 
a Complex Action. When activated, the preparation lasts for a 
number of minutes equal to the Force of the preparation. When 
crafting the lynchpin, the character must specify and make a 
record of the effects they would like the bullet to have, in order, 
from most desired to least desired. When the preparation is 
activated, each net hit will add the listed properties to the 
bullet in the specified order until net hits or the list of chosen 
effects is exhausted.
LIST OF EFFECTS
• Double weapon range (changing all categories of range 
modifiers).
• –4 dice pool modifier to Perception tests to notice gunfire.
• +1 Accuracy.
• Deformation Resistance: –2 AP , –1 DV. Deformation-
resistant bullets do not deform when fired or upon impact, 
which inflicts a –4 dice pool penalty to any Armorer tests 
to identify the weapon that fired the bullet. Cannot be used 
with hollow-point ammunition. 
• Increased Deformation: +2 AP , +1 DV. Cannot be used with APDS.
• Astral signature fade time reduced by 50 percent.
• Impact Dispersion: Reduces the Physical limit of a 
character by 2 when comparing it to the DV to determine 
knockdown.
• Frangible: Treat any barrier the ammo hits as if its Armor 
were twice normal.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
186    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 187 =====
NEW REAGENTS OF 
THE SIXTH WORLD 
Gathering and refining reagents is the staple of 
the alchemist. Reagents are measured by the spe-
cific amount required to be equivalent in strength 
to a dram of orichalcum. For example, a physi-
cal pound of gris-gris dust from a less-refined 
reagent might only hold the mystical equivalent 
of a few drams of orichalcum. With the myriad 
of traditions and paths different practitioners of 
magic employ, there is always a high demand for 
reagents of different styles and types. As many 
traditions are careful to protect their secrets, a 
successful alchemist or talismonger seeks to pro-
vide a vast selection of reagents and takes careful 
notes about who purchases what. 
HARVESTING REAGENTS
Mana flows and pools throughout the Sixth World, 
creating rich veins where alchemists and talismon-
gers harvest reagents. Sadly for those aspiring en-
trepreneurs, the safer and better known the area, 
the less likely it is to find reagents that are rare or 
powerful and command the highest prices. This 
quest to find new locations to harvest has led to 
the discovery of some rare and exotic ingredients 
that are just now becoming known to alchemists 
in the shadows as well as their corporate brethren. 
OVERHARVESTING REAGENTS
Once an area has been properly harvested of re-
agents, it can take forty-eight hours or more for 
the mana to replenish. Sometimes, though, you 
need what you need and don’t have time to wait. 
It’s possible to overharvest a specific area, but it’s 
a desperate and dangerous maneuver. Overhar -
vesting has the very real possibility of tainting the 
area enough to ensure it will never again be able 
to collect enough mana to enable the creation of 
viable reagents. This process also taints the alche-
mist, reducing the quality of any other reagents 
they may gather for the next forty-eight hours by 
one full level (Superior to Base, Base to Subpar, 
and so forth). Talismongers, corporations, and al-
chemists alike have no tolerance for those who 
would permanently destroy valuable resources. 
And chummer, someone is always  watching.
To harvest a reagent from an already taxed 
area, make an Alchemy + Magic [Mental] Test. 
You gather one dram for every 4 hits on this test if 
you are in an area suited to your tradition, and one 
dram for every 6 hits if you’re not. Glitching this 
roll results in the area being totally unsuitable for 
reagent harvesting for a full week. A critical glitch 
renders the area permanently dead to the possi-
bility of gathering reagents. 
NEW WAYS 
TO LEVERAGE 
REAGENTS
Reagents have more uses than just as a key com-
ponent for different compounds. The different 
levels of refinement allow for differing and ad-
vanced effects depending on their level of so-
phistication. Below is a list of additional effects 
UPDATED REAGENT COST AND EFFECTS
REAGENT COST (PER DRAM) AVAILABILITY EFFECT
Tainted 20¥ — Increase time to refine by 100 percent
Inferior 30¥ 1 Increase time to refine by 50 percent
Subpar 40¥ 4 Increase time to refine by 25 percent
Baseline 50¥ 6R No change
Superior 60¥ 14R Reduce time to refine by 25 percent
Prime 70¥ 20R Reduce time to refine by 50 percent
Refined Type x 5 +4 See New Ways to Leverage Reagents (below)
Radical Type x 25 +8 See New Ways to Leverage Reagents (below)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    187
===== PDF PAGE IDX 188 =====
that reagents may be used for beyond those list-
ed in SR5 and Street Grimoire. The total amount of 
bonus effects may not exceed the user’s Magic 
rating. Effects from a Radical reagent are not cu-
mulative with effects from the Refined version of 
that same reagent.
RAW REAGENTS
These reagents are newly harvested or have yet 
to undergo refinement by an alchemist.
• Reduce drain by 1 for Ritual Spellcasting tests.
• Raise the limit by 1 for any tests using Magic.
• Create refined reagents (requires 10 drams to 
be refined into a single dram of refined re-
agent).
REFINED REAGENTS
These reagents have undergone the refinement 
process and have attained a new level of power.
• Reduce drain by 2 for tests using skills in 
the Sorcery group.
• Reduce drain by 1 for binding.
• Raises limit by 5 for all tests using Magic.
• Create Magical Compounds (p. 219, Street 
Grimoire).
• Create radical reagents (p. 210, Street Gri-
moire) (requires 10 drams to be refined into 
a single dram of radical reagent).
RADICAL REAGENTS
The most powerful version of a reagent, these 
have gone through the refinement process twice 
to reach their maximum potential.
• Reduces drain by 2 for tests using skills in the 
Conjuring group.
• Reduce drain by 4 for tests using skills in the 
Sorcery group.
• Reduce object resistance by 1 per dram.
• No Force limit for any tests using Magic 
(though Drain is caluclated as normal).
• Reducing Spirit Index (p. 207, Street Grimoire).
• Create orichalcum (Requires 10 drams each 
of the required reagents listed as per (p. 210, 
Street Grimoire).
• Create fetish (p. 212, Street Grimoire).
• Create inanimate vessel (p. 214, Street Gri-
moire).
NEW RARE 
REAGENTS
The reagents detailed in this section are consid-
ered rare and difficult to harvest. They are almost 
universally usable by different traditions and are 
in high demand. Their purity of mana makes them 
desirable, as the smallest amount can go a long 
way. They are also useful in several new com-
pounds that have been invented to make use of 
the qualities inherent in each. Even the lowest 
quality of these are considered superior reagents. 
The danger in their acquisition can be high, but 
there are many who are willing to do far more for 
a few nuyen. 
REAGENT:  
BONE OR HAIR FROM  
A BAOBHAN SITH
Known as the White Women, the baobhan sith 
are fae with deep ties to myth and legend (p. 1 14, 
Court of Shadows). Some believe they are the pro-
genitors of the first vampires as the source of the 
human metahuman vampiric virus. Others claim 
they are the source of the tales of nymphs and si-
rens that lure men to their deaths with their beau-
ty. The baobhan sith appear as hauntingly beauti-
ful women with the terrifying power to alter their 
very bones into rending talons and razor-sharp 
teeth. These monsters live off humanoid blood 
and inflict a strange euphoria in their victims, cre-
ating an addiction to being their prey. 
Restored access to the Sixth World through the 
metaplanes has freed the baobhan to once more 
hunt the mortal plane. A hunter, however, may 
find themselves prey if they are not careful, as the 
runners in the shadows are no easy meat. Prey 
alone is not the only reason the baobhan have 
returned to the mortal plane of the Sixth World. 
Status within their kind is based upon a meritoc-
racy. Providing the most use to the whole earns 
value. In the course of hunting for sustenance, a 
White Woman may also be seeking to extend her 
personal network of spies and informants or gain 
access to a new and valuable skill that would in-
crease her worth or standing back home.
Once properly refined, the bone or hair from a 
baobhan sith
 serves as a primary reagent for com-
pounds and preparations that could enhance re-
generation and heal physical wounds, or become 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
188    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 189 =====
a tenacious poison that damages not just the body, 
but also one’s ability to wield magic. 
REAGENT:  
DROP BEAR SALIVA
The mass of jet-black fur and razor sharp teeth 
known as the drop bear (p. 60, Howling Shad-
ows) is a form of Awakened koala. Known car -
riers of HMHVV II, these omnivorous predators 
are currently on the bounty list all over the Out-
back and other areas of Oceania. While they are 
able to survive on their preferred food source of 
eucalyptus, they are ambush predators that are 
always looking for a way to add easy meat to 
their diet. 
Outside of captivity, drop bears are found pri-
marily in the outback of Australia, as well as in 
forested areas of New Guinea. Recently, some 
zoos and corporations have begun importing or 
breeding the beasts, making it possible to find 
them in other areas, though under very difficult 
circumstances due to both the bounty and their 
innate ferocity. Recent discoveries on the al-
chemical uses of their saliva may rectify this situ-
ation swiftly, assuming a synthetic can’t be man-
ufactured first. 
Alchemically, drop bear saliva has become in-
credibly popular. A corporate researcher discov -
ered by accident the ability to refine the saliva and 
create a serum that inhibits the continuing mu-
tation of HMHVV II. While it does not serve as a 
cure, it stops any progress of the virus as long as 
the serum is administered on a weekly basis. This 
serum is not generally known to the public yet, but 
the black market has erupted with the formula for 
the creation of the compound, and many willing 
test subjects have come forward. Other uses for 
this reagent have been explored but are uncon-
firmed at this time. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    189
===== PDF PAGE IDX 190 =====
REAGENT: GHOST  
ORCHID PETALS
Ghost orchids are a particularly rare breed of orchid. 
They bloom at night by the light of the moon, and the 
white coloration gives them an otherworldly glow. 
Researchers into these matters agree that the very 
rarity of the flower makes it a natural accumulator of 
mana. When combined with the ambient mana of 
the Sixth World, this allows these delicate flowers to 
take on powerful characteristics when properly pro-
cessed and refined by a skilled alchemist. 
Ghost orchids are most commonly found deep 
within forested areas. They need exposure to direct 
moonlight to bloom, so they are difficult to obtain 
in the first place. There has been some limited suc-
cess in cultivating the flower in greenhouses and 
such, but the ambient mana must be high in order 
for them to develop and thrive. Most commonly 
found in the UCAS areas, their very rarity is part of 
what makes them such a potent reagent. 
When properly refined, ghost orchid petals 
are powerful reagents that are added into com-
pounds and preparations designed to enhance 
vision-based perception. They also may be further 
refined into radical reagents that can allow for in-
creased duration in the astral plane and enhancing 
one’s Charisma. 
REAGENT: GROUND 
KILLDEER ANTLERS
Killdeer (p. 97, Howling Shadows) were original-
ly mutated whitetail deer that now breed true 
as their own unique strain. At first glance, they 
look similar to their original stock. The primary 
differences are the sharpened antler tips for gor -
ing prey and the elongated muzzle that contains 
sharp teeth for rending and tearing meat. These 
hardy creatures are omnivores, though unlike 
their whitetail predecessors, they subsist pri-
marily on meat and supplement with vegetation 
when hunting is poor. 
This species came into being after radiation mu-
tated the whitetail population in and around the 
suburbs of Chicago. From there, they have spread 
to cover entire swathes of the CAS and UCAS, as 
well as parts of the NAN. Their omnivorous nature 
makes them strong survivors in most environments. 
They tend to breed swiftly and are constantly ex-
panding their territory, pushing out the whitetail 
herds that provide an unwitting camouflage. 
Killdeer are sturdy beasts, and alchemists have 
found many ways to distill that nature into various 
compounds. Killdeer antlers in particular are po-
tent aids in healing, regeneration, and toxin-resis-
tance compounds. They may also be used in poi-
sons to sap these very characteristics, weakening 
targets or doing them injury. The rarity of this in-
gredient is reflected by the difficulty of obtaining 
the correct type of antler, which is challenging to 
distinguish from the whitetail, and as such, easily 
counterfeited. 
REAGENT: KAYERI 
MUSHROOM
Deep within the forests of Tír na nÓg dwell a pe-
culiar faerie known as the kayeri (p. 121, Court of 
Shadows). They are guardians and nurturers of the 
forest, along with the plants and animals within 
it. Resembling giant rabbits with extended jaws, 
carnivorous teeth, and mushrooms growing from 
their skulls, the kayeri are fierce protectors of 
their vegetative homes and require any outsiders 
who wish to access their lands to negotiate for 
the privilege. 
There are only two places one may find a kayeri. 
Their natural habitat within the forests of Tír na nÓg 
or select aspected domains of the Sixth World while 
they hunt down those who have desecrated their 
protected charges or one of their kin. The second is 
rather uncommon, as no kayeri wishes to leave its 
charge or community for very long. It takes an act 
of desecration or a desire for revenge to lure these 
protectors from the forests. Once removed, they are 
fiercely devoted to achieving their goal and return-
ing as swiftly as possible back to their home plane.
Kayeri mushrooms, once refined, are potent 
curatives for toxins, poisons, or diseases. Their 
healing properties are some of the most powerful 
available for alchemists to distill due to their in-
herent prime quality. While there is danger during 
the refinement process, the possible benefits that 
come from these curatives has outweighed the 
risk of vengeful rabbit fae descending upon the 
mortal plane. For now. 
NEW EXOTIC 
REAGENTS
The reagents detailed in this section are consid-
ered some of the most dangerous and difficult 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
190    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 191 =====
to acquire. They are powerful items that can be 
used by nearly every known tradition. Due to 
their inherent flexibility, they are highly sought 
after and usually quite expensive. Many of them 
serve as required reagents in some of the more 
powerful or rare compounds and preparations an 
alchemist can learn. Only the most adventurous 
or powerful can harvest these items, as not only 
are they difficult to find but also deadly to claim.
REAGENT: DRAKE SCALES
Drakes (p. 162, Howling Shadows) are powerful 
metahumans, either born as such or possessing 
the latent ability to transform. These creatures are 
the preferred minions of dragons, and most are 
bound to one or another as servants to the mighty 
beasts. They do have other uses however, and not 
merely to themselves. Alchemists and other magi-
cians have found that the different types of drake 
share a unique property. Their bodies are natural 
mana accumulators. This facility with mana makes 
the scales of a drake particularly potent reagents 
when properly harvested and refined. However, 
their sympathetic connection makes few drakes 
willing to part with their scales. 
Wherever you find a dragon, chances are you 
will find at least a few drake servants. This is, how-
ever, an incredibly dangerous way of finding har -
vestable reagents. More common are those who 
manage to identify lairs of unbound drakes or are 
lucky enough to clean up after confrontations. 
Both scenarios offer a somewhat safer avenue to 
harvest the valuable scales. 
Due to the different nature of each species of 
drake, their scales have been put to many varied 
uses once refined. Different traditions find vary -
ing degrees of synergy dependent on the breed 
of drake from which the scales originated. All 
agree they are powerful mana accumulators, and 
as such, their quality is never less than superior. A 
notable exception is that any breed of drake scale 
is useable in the compound formula recently un-
covered to combat the physical damage of drain. 
Predictably, demand for these items has skyrock -
eted in the magical community and black market. 
REAGENT: ORGAN OF 
INSECT SPIRIT HOST
The rise of the bug spirits and their shamans mak-
ing deeper inroads into the Sixth World has not 
been totally without benefit. Alchemists have dis-
covered that the organs of a host of one of these 
spirits can be a powerful reagent in many types of 
compounds and preparations. The otherworldly 
mana within them makes them excellent alchem-
ical agents. Viable even after the death of the 
host, different organs that have been subjected 
to the mana of these spirits take on interesting 
alchemical properties.
Chicago is still considered a hotbed of insect 
spirit activity, making it one of the most likely 
places to obtain an infected host, living or dead. 
The spread of these spirits has made it possible 
to find them in other areas as well. The corrupted 
mana of these spirits seems to linger after death, 
and grave robbing has been on the rise as indus-
trious alchemists follow the age-old adage of 
waste not, want not. 
The most potent use for this reagent is the al-
chemical compound that bonds the spirit and 
body of the astral traveler in such a way as to in-
crease their ability to manifest themselves. Other 
alchemical preparations and formulas that focus 
on travel or communication have also benefited 
by the use of these organs steeped in the mana of 
spirits from another plane. 
REAGENT: VEINS  
OF AN ADEPT
At the core of any type of reagent is its natural 
ability to accumulate and store mana. As such, 
some dark tradition alchemists have begun to ex-
periment with the body parts of those known to 
be a conduit for mana. Thus was born the formula 
that uses the veins of an adept to negate the risk 
of drain. Whether from grave robbing or harvest-
ing from captives, this reagent has tempted even 
the most noble due to the raw power granted 
by the compounds and alchemical mixtures that 
make use of them. 
Adepts may be found all over the Sixth World 
and some other planes that connect to it. Finding 
one already slain, or harvesting the veins from one 
still living, is another matter altogether. The adept 
community finds the rise in demand for their body 
parts for alchemical experimentation abhorrent. 
They actively seek out those who would use such 
things for their own particular brand of revenge. 
This particular reagent is often harvested by 
those of dark traditions, enterprising talismon-
gers who have made quite the tidy profit in selling 
compounds without mentioning the ingredients 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    191
===== PDF PAGE IDX 192 =====
they contain. Many care more about the effect 
than where it comes from. There are rumors that if 
the veins of an adept provide such a powerful re-
agent, perhaps other mana-wielding entities may 
have similar benefits, but alchemists are rarely will-
ing to encourage that line of thought. 
ALTERNATIVE USES 
FOR ORICHALCUM
Orichalcum is the professional standard across 
all magical traditions for reagents. This rare ma-
terial appears as an ethereal golden-orange col-
ored metal with the malleability of tin, and it can’t 
exist without the presence of magic. During the 
passage of Halley’s Comet, there were reports of 
orichalcum found by miners, alchemists, and re-
searchers. Since 2061, this phenomenon has nev-
er been repeated. The only reliable means to har -
vest orichalcum is for an alchemist to refine ten 
drams of gold, ten of copper, and ten of cinnabar 
in a laborious process that takes twenty-eight 
days to complete a single dram of orichalcum.
Orichalcum is commonly leveraged to supple-
ment power within a compound or preparation. It 
is universally compatible with any tradition, and as 
such, is ultimately useful for any alchemist or talis-
monger. Alchemists have experimented with this 
potent reagent since the dawn of the Sixth World 
and have uncovered many uses for it.
A single dram of orichalcum may be used to re-
place the need for any other specific reagent for 
a compound or alchemical preparation. Once the 
orichalcum has been created, an alchemist may 
now refine that dram further, to change and aug-
ment the aura to mimic another specific reagent. 
For example, when creating the poison known as 
Lot’s Curse (p. 220, Street Grimoire), a properly pre-
pared dram of orichalcum may be substituted for 
the normally required refined Gomorrah apple. An 
alchemist must have previously sensed the aura to 
be mimicked at least once in order to successfully 
transmute the aura of the orichalcum.
Orichalcum is such a strong conductor of mana 
that it may be used to enhance the effect of prepara-
tions. Any preparation that has a dram of orichalcum 
used within its creation retains full power for Potency 
x 3 hours, instead of the standard Potency x 2, be-
fore it begins to degrade. When used in the creation 
of items (other than compounds and the creation of 
reagents), orichalcum can reduce the object resis-
tance by 4 for any Enchanting test. It can also en-
hance the magnitude of any Sorcery test by increas-
ing the Magic rating by 5. No matter the use, adding 
orichalcum removes any Force limit involved, prov-
ing by this alone its incredible potency and value. 
NEW ALCHEMICAL 
TOOLS 
The lore of alchemy conjures images of bubbling 
beakers and strange apparatus that once facili-
tated failed attempts to recreate magic during 
the Fifth World. Some of these tools have been 
THE PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
Rumor, lore, and conspiracy theorists insist that there’s an 
alternative method of harvesting orichalcum. Behind closed 
doors, they speculate that this is the true meaning of what 
was known as the Philosopher’s Stone. The oft-told tales of 
turning lead into gold were merely allegory of harvesting the 
true “gold” of all reagents—orichalcum. None have been 
willing or able to confirm its existence directly, but legend 
holds a talented alchemist can discern the scent of the refined 
orichalcum via the Philosopher’s Stone. Some say that the 
material somehow feels like pure mana. Others say it smells of 
roses. Ancient stories also say that the Philosopher’s Stone is 
not found but made with exotic reagents and formula lost to the 
ages. Whether it is a secret rediscovered from the annals of 
the ancient past or an artifact recovered from some unknown 
tomb, none can be truly sure.
The legendary Philosopher’s Stone grants the possessor 
virtually unlimited access to orichalcum by reducing the time and 
materials necessary to refine a dram. It is said that instead of ten 
of each ingredient as in the normal refinement of orichalcum, 
only a single dram of each is needed. If true, an alchemist could 
create ten times the normal amount of orichalcum in a single 
session. Unlimited riches for the lucky possessor, assuming they 
could remain in possession of such an artifact long enough to 
make their fortune. If such an artifact exists, it remains a closely 
guarded secret by necessity, as there’s not an alchemist in the 
world who wouldn’t kill to possess it.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
192    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 193 =====
reinvented and repurposed in the Sixth World to 
help push the boundaries of alchemy. While the 
list below is not exhaustive, as additional tools 
are developed every day, several stand out in the 
field. Corporations and runners alike continue to 
develop any advantage they can to facilitate not 
just profit, but survival, within the Sixth World. 
ATOMIZER
Developed during the early resurgence of alchemy 
as a practice, the atomizer is more a delivery device 
than it is an actual tool. The key to this device lies 
in its ability to take solid or liquid compounds and 
break them down into an aerosol spray without any 
loss in power or effect. This enables both healing 
and poison effects that would normally be com-
mand triggered to be created as contact triggers 
while retaining efficacy. The nature of the atomizer 
itself keeps contact with the device from activat-
ing the contact trigger. This enables the atomizer 
to spray out its payload which will then activate 
upon contact. Rumors exist about atomizers that 
may hold more than one compound “cartridge” at 
a time, though none can verify the truth of them. 
Effect: One compound may be converted from 
a solid or liquid into an aerosol when inserted into 
the atomizer. Compounds made with a contact 
trigger are not enacted until they contact a sub-
stance after being fired from the atomizer. Atom-
izers can be used to make a ranged attack with a 
maximum range of three meters. 
Price: 500 nuyen for the atomizer itself, 5 nuy-
en for an empty cartridge
ALEMBIC
The original distillery, the term “alembic” en-
compasses all three pieces required for the dis-
tilling process. Alchemists may use this device 
to increase the potency of the product their re-
agents produce. By distilling down to the im-
portant essence, more refined reagents are pro-
duced during the process from the same original 
amount of base ingredient. As such, the standard 
ten drams of reagent will produce two drams of 
refined, instead of one. The same process applies 
to further enhancement of refined reagents into 
radicals at the same ratio. 
Effect: Using an alembic during the refinement 
process doubles the amount of refined or radical 
reagents created. 
Price: 3,000 nuyen
ATHANOR
An athanor is a furnace used in the alchemical re-
finement process. It provides a constant rate of 
heat vital to the successful creation of refined and 
radical reagents. New technologies have allowed 
for the perfection of this device, a rare case where 
technology benefits the magical rather than hin-
ders it. An athanor provides a strong and consis-
tent flame that requires little maintenance. This 
allows an alchemist to spend more time on other 
projects without having to constantly attend to 
other reagents they are refining. 
Effect: An athanor grants the alchemist leeway 
in the refinement and circulation process. During 
the refinement process of standard reagents, an 
alchemist may step away for up to one hour during 
the ten-hour process without ill effect. When un-
dergoing the month-long process of creating 
orichalcum, an alchemist may check on the refine-
ment process once every twelve hours, instead of 
every ten. 
Price: 1,000 nuyen
CRUCIBLE
No matter how careful the alchemist, there are 
times when reagents become corrupted, or when 
the reagents are lower quality than desired. The 
crucible was reintroduced to alchemy to combat 
this effect. Careful use of this device can allow an 
alchemist to steam away the impurities found in 
some reagents and increase their potency. There 
are limits of course, and a crucible can’t be ex-
pected to perform miracles. It can, however, al-
low a canny talismonger who is willing to take 
the time and effort to vastly increase their profit 
margin. By buying less desirable reagents and re-
fining them with a crucible, they can scrape every 
nuyen possible out of a sale. 
Effect: By using a crucible, an alchemist may 
upgrade the quality of a reagent one step. This 
takes the same amount of time as a standard re-
finement cycle of ten hours. A reagent may be 
upgraded from superior to prime in this manner, 
but it may not be enhanced any further than prime 
quality. 
Price: 500 nuyen
VAULT OF AGES
The “vault of ages” is the most common name 
for this relatively recent innovation. Taken from 
the habit of secretive alchemists who hide their 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    193
===== PDF PAGE IDX 194 =====
formulas and creations in secret vaults covered 
in traps, the preservative nature of this item 
gives it the name. First invented by a talismonger 
skilled in alchemy, the vault of ages helps miti-
gate the greatest flaw in crafted items. From the 
moment of creation, alchemical compounds and 
preparations begin to degrade. Dependent on 
the strength of the creator, they can quickly be-
come useless if too much time passes, becoming 
a massive waste of resources and time. The vault 
stabilizes alchemical creations, halting the degra-
dation process for the duration of time it remains 
within the vault. 
Effect: A vault of ages may store a number of 
alchemical compounds or preparations equal to 
twice the Magic rating of its creator. The Rating of 
these items cannot be more than twice the rating 
of the vault. While within the confines of the vault, 
these items do not degrade. The degradation 
clock starts ticking as soon as they are removed. 
Price: 2,000 nuyen per Magic Rating to a 
max of 5
NEW COMPOUNDS 
Alchemy is a constantly evolving field of mysti-
cal study as practitioners, from solo magicians 
to teams of corporate researchers, experiment 
and explore new uses for reagents. Their ultimate 
goal is to discover new compounds that will make 
them rich, famous, and/or powerful. Many who 
make such a discovery hoard their knowledge 
to corner the market and maximize their profits. 
There are also those who seek to reverse-engi-
neer the newest fad, analyzing a compound and 
taking it apart to find how it was made. Whether it 
is undercutting a rival or finding new and cheaper 
ways to produce the compound, any talismonger 
worth their salt always has their ear to the ground 
for the newest creation. 
Persistent runners can find talismongers willing 
to sell some of these compounds, but it’s neither 
easy nor cheap—due to the time it takes to cre-
ate them versus the time they last before potency 
runs out, these compounds are not exactly sitting 
on store shelves. Still, runners are known for hav -
ing contacts who might have unlikely items, and 
sometimes a talismonger friend might just have 
the item on hand that can provide important assis-
tance to a runner team.
The lack of a standard market for these items 
leads to a lack of standard pricing. Still, there is a 
baseline to consider, and it looks like this: [(Force 
of spell involved) + (Current Potency)] x 500¥. 
Another factor that might raise the price is wheth-
er there is a current scarcity of required reagents 
(either globally or locally). Base availability for 
all compounds is 14R. Creating alchemical com-
pounds requires advanced alchemy metamagic 
(p. 153, Street Grimoire).
ALCHEMICAL DUCT TAPE
Few things have endeared alchemists to riggers 
and deckers more than the creation of this com-
pound. While on a run, there is never enough 
time to repair a damaged vehicle or drone to per-
fection. Sometimes you just need to get it work -
ing and get moving. That’s where alchemical duct 
tape comes in. By slapping this on and activating 
the compound, complex repairs can be achieved 
in an instant. Use of this compound is the only 
magical repair possible, after which more mun-
dane efforts are required to fix the machine.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, this compound 
magically repairs a non-living target. Each 
hit upon activation repairs one point of 
structure or one box of damage, as per the 
spell Fix (p. 1 16, Street Grimoire).
• Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined mallard fat
ASTRAL INCREASE 
The limits on a magician’s ability to manifest 
can seriously threaten the success of a run. Al-
chemists have finally created a solution for this 
problem thanks to the rediscovery of the ghost 
orchid. These ethereal flower petals enhance the 
magician within the astral plane. The careful and 
ALCHEMICAL TOOLS
ITEM COST AVAILABILITY
Atomizer 500¥ 4
     Cartridge 5¥ 2
Athanor 1,000¥ 4
Crucible 500 2
Vault of ages 2,000 x Rating (Rating +4)R
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
194    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 195 =====
repeated refinement imbues the user with that 
dual nature, enhancing their physical and ethe-
real nature at the same time. Ghost orchids are 
incredibly difficult to cultivate outside of the wild. 
Doing so requires a level of care and concern that 
few are willing to put forth. Ghost orchids are 
most potent when harvested under the light of a 
full moon, especially in spots where the light may 
reach the petals unimpeded. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: Once ingested, this compound dou-
bles the amount of time a magician may re-
main manifested while in astral projection.
• Aftereffect: Winded side effect
• Required Reagent: Radical ghost orchid 
petals.
ASTRAL BOND
Normally the bond between body and soul is not 
strong enough to invoke other prepared items in 
the alchemist arsenal. This compound resolves 
that issue, reinforcing that bond and allowing 
mana to flow to the prepared items. This com-
pound mystically encases that elusive connect-
ing silver cord in steel, conveying a stronger bond 
between body and soul while inhibiting neither. 
While under the effect of this compound, many 
users have spoken of the ease of travel and re-
sponse while astral, almost as if their body itself 
was there instead of just their soul. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: While this compound lasts, the 
bond between body and astral form is 
much stronger. While manifesting, the tar -
get may activate command triggers. 
• Aftereffect: Can’t Speak side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined organ from in-
sect host.
BAOBHAN’S TEARS
The worst nightmare of many a magician, bao-
bhan’s tears is a contact poison that deals dam-
age to the body as well as to the ability to shape 
mana. While this compound does not share the 
addictive qualities of the real kiss, the blend of 
euphoria remains, even while at odds with the 
damage it inflicts on the body. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: Upon contact with the skin or in-
halation, this poison deals 4P damage that 
may only be resisted by Body. If any dam-
age is not resisted, the target also loses 1 
point of Essence for the next twenty-four 
hours. Repeated doses of this poison may 
inflict damage, but only 1 point of Essence 
may be lost during the twenty-four-hour 
period after initial infection.
• Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined tears of a bao-
bhan sith (p. 1 14, Court of Shadows)
DRAIN AWAY
Holding the ability to lower the damage caused 
by drain, this compound has become one of the 
most feared in the arsenal of dark aspect magi-
cians. It can only be made with the mana-fueled 
veins of an adept, and producing this compound 
pushes past lines even most shadowrunners will 
not cross. Countless adepts perished before the 
formula was perfected. Now it spreads deep 
within the shadows for those willing to pay the 
price for power. Dark traditions and insect sha-
mans are known to carry a dose as a trump card 
few could expect.
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: Once imbibed, the next time the 
target would take physical damage from 
drain, that damage is negated.
• Aftereffect: Nauseated side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined veins of the 
adept
DULLED EDGES 
When damage is inevitable, reducing the target’s 
ability to inflict damage itself is a cunning tool. 
This poison dulls the edges of the target, lower -
ing their reaction times, weakening their muscles, 
and sapping their strength. Even the mightiest 
street samurai fears the moment when their body 
is turned against them. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: Once it contacts a target, this com-
pound decreases the target’s Physical limit 
by 2 for 3 turns. 
• Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
• Required Reagent: Radical killdeer antler 
(p. 97, Howling Shadows)
FEEL NO PAIN
Known as FNP on the streets, feel no pain delays 
the need for sleep, food, or even water. While it 
doesn’t eliminate these urges, it can delay them 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    195
===== PDF PAGE IDX 196 =====
until the user is in a better place to handle these 
basic needs. Quite popular among corp workers 
who are closing in on a project deadline, since 
nothing gets you through it faster than a bit of 
FNP. There are very real dangers when it comes to 
this alchemical compound. More than three days 
of consecutive use of FNP brings risks of addic-
tion as well as fatigue and disorientation (Addic-
tion Rating 4, Addiction Threshold 2; see p. 1 72, 
409, and 414, SR5).
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, every net hit counts 
as one hour of sleep for the purposes of 
resisting fatigue. It also allows a target to 
skip one meal per net hit with no ill effects. 
When the duration of FNP ends, the effects 
of dehydration and starvation immediately 
apply to the subject. 
• Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
• Required Reagent: Radical kayeri mush-
room
FORCE OF PERSONALITY
For those who heavily engage in combat in the 
astral plane, this compound is a godsend. Alche-
mists have developed a gel that enhances the abil-
ity of a magician or adept to deal damage to astral 
creatures and constructs alike. The compound can 
also be helpful to non-magicians who wish to dis-
play enhanced levels of charisma and charm. Few 
are willing to endure the side effects without sub-
stantial reason, due to the risks it entails.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: This compound must be applied to 
the target’s skin and then activated. While 
active, the target’s Charisma is increased 
by 2 for the purposes of astral combat 
only. Such an artificial increase manifest-
ing on the astral plane requires a potent 
ability, and comes with an equally debili-
tating side effect.
• Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
• Required Reagent: Radical ghost orchid 
petals
HMHVV II INHIBITOR 
Developed in secret by the Aztechnology Al-
chemy division, this compound is only sold and 
then administered to approved and vetted elite 
corporate citizens who sign a specialized NDA 
to prevent rogue alchemists from attempting to 
reverse-engineer it. A new and rare inoculation, 
this magical compound prevents further progress 
of HMHVV II as long as the compound is contin-
ually ingested. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: This compound must be con-
sumed once every seven days. As long 
as the regimen is maintained, all progress 
of HMHVV II is halted. This is not a cure, 
merely an inhibitor. Failure to continue 
dosing will allow the virus to progress 
once more, often more virulent than be-
fore due to the repression. There is also 
a possibility of addiction when using the 
inhibitor; it has Addiction Rating 3, Ad-
diction Threshold 1.
• Aftereffect: Fatigued side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined drop bear sali-
va (p. 60, Howling Shadows)
LAMINATE 
Many traditions use writings or symbols painted 
or drawn upon an item for their alchemical prepa-
rations. These markings are susceptible to dam-
age or accident, rendering the time and energy 
spent on them wasted. Recently, the infamous 
alchemist Megalith released this compound to 
spite the Aztechnology Alchemical division.
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: An aerosol spray that when applied 
coats a layer of writing or runes in a thin 
protective gel. Unable to stand up to any 
real damage, (1 point of Physical damage 
destroys the layer) it will protect from ac-
cidental scuffing or blurring through in-
advertent contact. For example, a sword 
with runes drawn upon the blade may be 
sheathed and unsheathed without damag-
ing the inked writing. 
• Aftereffect: Blinded (One Eye) side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined slug glands
PERFECT SIGHT
Perfect sight has hit the streets, and for the first 
time non-magicians have an inkling of what it’s 
like to see the astral plane. Some use this just as a 
recreational drug, seeing sights they never imag-
ined could exist from the comfort of their own 
homes. Enterprising runners and corporations 
have also made use of this compound. Guards 
can detect the dual-natured, or even warn their 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
196    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 197 =====
superiors about astral beings attempting to ac-
cess secure locations. Runners can keep an eye 
on their astral counterparts without requiring 
them to waste time manifesting. This increased 
bond to the astral does come at a cost however, 
as use of this increases the noise (p. 441, SR5) in 
the local area.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When applied to the eyes and 
commanded to activate, this compound 
allows the target to perceive the astral 
plane. Throughout the duration of this 
compound, the ambient noise in an area 
is increased by the net hits achieved when 
activated as per the spell Interference (p. 
117,  Street Grimoire)
• Aftereffect: Stunned side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined ghost orchid 
petals
SHARPSHOOTER
One shot, one kill. The motto of the sniper, and 
harder to accomplish in this age of advanced 
magical and mundane protection. This com-
pound returns some of that danger and abili-
ty to the sniper by removing the pesky im-
pediments of range or perception. A cunning 
alchemist has managed to combine the spells 
of Hawkeye and Enhance Aim into one easy-
to-use compound. Even the most experienced 
sniper or gunslinger likes to have a little Sharp-
shooter on hand to ensure they don’t miss when 
they take aim. 
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: Applied to the eyes or in a quickly 
digestible pill, Sharpshooter improves the 
target’s aim as well as negating range mod-
ifiers in increasing increments. For each net 
hit, reduce Range conditions by one cate-
gory (p. 1 75, SR5). It also grants a +1 dice 
pool modifier for any visual-based percep-
tion tests. 
• Aftereffect: Blinded (one eye)
• Required Reagent: Radical eyes of a bird 
of prey.
UNSTOPPABLE VIGOR
Another powerful tool in the arsenal of the ma-
gician, this compound makes even the frailest 
mana worker more likely to survive extended 
spellcasting. Far more than the blades or bul-
lets of enemies, drain itself becomes an unwary 
spellcaster’s greatest foe. This compound forc-
es an unnatural stamina to suffuse the body of a 
magician in order to combat the physical dam-
age that drain may inflict. It is a double-edged 
sword, as this increased hardiness can convince 
some to cast spells far beyond their power un-
til they become addicted to it (the compound 
has Addiction Rating 6, Addiction Threshold 
3). This forces them to continue consuming the 
compound to survive the repeated damage of 
drain.
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: Once imbibed, the target gains a 
number of boxes on their Stun Condition 
Monitor equal to the potency of the com-
pound. These boxes are only useful for re-
sisting the damage associated with drain. 
Once the potency expires or the boxes are 
full from drain damage, they disappear and 
the effect ends.
• Aftereffect: Slowed side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined drake scales 
(any type)
WATER BREATHING 
There are those who refuse to let such a minor 
setback as being underwater stop them in their 
quest for hidden riches. Use of this compound 
magically imbues the user with gills, allowing 
them to breath easily underwater. This is not 
some mystical conversion, but rather true gills, 
which can be problematic to the inexperienced 
user. While this compound remains in effect, the 
user cannot breathe air alone; they must take 
their oxygen from the water. As such, the truly in-
novative have taken advantage of this fact, apply-
ing the compound to a target and then watching 
their victim suffocate before them.
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: The target is empowered with the 
Gills critter power (p. 192, Howling Shad-
ows). While this compound is active, the 
target has real working gills and may only 
breathe underwater. Canceling this effect 
removes them and returns the ability to 
breathe air.
• Aftereffect: Winded side effect
• Required Reagent: Refined salmon scales
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    197
===== PDF PAGE IDX 198 =====
NEW ALCHEMICAL 
PREPARATIONS
Alchemical preparations are spells that rely on 
a physical conduit, called the lynchpin, to chan-
nel mana from the astral to the physical realm to 
activate them. Lynchpins are the weak spot in 
any alchemical preparation, as even the slightest 
damage to them will render the entire prepara-
tion inoperable. They can take many forms, from 
arcane writing on paper to the severed hand of 
a murderer mystically imbued with power. Tradi-
tion and imagination are the limit when it comes 
to alchemically preparing a vessel for a spell. 
Rules for purchasing preparations follows the 
same outline as buying compounds (p. 194), name-
ly that they are hard to find—in fact, even more so 
because of the shorter lifespan. The base price is 
[(Force of spell involved) + (Current Potency)] x 
500¥. Base availability for all preparations is 14R.
ABANDON ALL HOPE
Another popular trap and defensive preparation, this 
preparation increases an aura of fear and helpless-
ness in the entire area when activated. By setting this 
up in an area where other traps are located, it be-
comes much easier to deter any who seek to beard 
the alchemist in their lair. This preparation is often 
set upon something of value left easily found. As the 
magic is undetectable until activated, once a would-
be thief touches the item, the fear aura ignites.
• Trigger: Contact 
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Foreboding spell upon the area. 
• Required Spell: Foreboding (p. 1 12, Street 
Grimoire)
BARRICADE
A few seconds can seem a lifetime, or make all 
the difference in the world. Upon activating this 
preparation, the structural integrity of a wall or 
door can be increased. Traditional-minded alche-
mists use runes written on paper, which is then 
applied to the target. Other, more innovative 
methods, such as a penny in the door seam, can 
work just as well when properly prepared.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: Upon activation, the spell Reinforce 
is cast on the object the preparation has 
been applied to. 
• Required Spell: Reinforce (p. 1 18, Street 
Grimoire)
BURN, BABY, BURN
Triple B is one of the most versatile trap-style 
preparations and can take many forms. A room 
filled with flammable gas, with a hidden rune 
upon the floor that ignites the entire room in 
flames. A grenade of flammable liquid, with a 
command rune inscribed upon it. There are myr -
iad ways to capitalize on something igniting in 
flames on command.
• Trigger: Command 
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Ignite spell upon the target. 
• Required Spell: Ignite (p. 293, SR5)
DO YOUR BEST
Unleashing the limits of body or mind can make 
the difference in any battle. This preparation al-
lows an alchemist to raise the effectiveness of 
herself and others. While this isn’t a guaranteed 
win, it greatly increases the chance of success in 
whatever endeavors a runner might undertake. 
Coated pills are a common form for this prepara-
tion, and when the command word is spoken the 
spell activates. 
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Increase Inherent Limits spell 
upon the target. Only one limit may be in-
creased at one time, and further activation 
of this eliminates the previous version. 
• Required Spell: Increase Inherent Limits 
(p. 1 10, Street Grimoire)
GET AWAY FROM MY RIDE
A getaway vehicle is nothing if it can’t help run-
ners escape. It’s a weakness in any plan, and as 
such, alchemists have devised a way to protect 
that key element of any good escape. Emblems 
and decals are popular forms for these prepara-
tions to make them blend in with the vehicle and 
hide their magical nature until it is too late. 
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Protect Vehicle spell upon the 
target vehicle.
• Required Spell: Protect Vehicle (p. 1 1 7, 
Street Grimoire)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
198    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 199 =====
HIGH AS A KITE
It’s not always about solving the problem yourself. 
Some of the most powerful preparations are ones 
that set up the rest of the team to succeed. The use 
of this preparation lowers the target’s ability to resist 
toxins and drugs. This can set up other teammates to 
deliver devastating attacks. This is most commonly 
prepared on projectiles for easy delivery.
• Trigger: Command 
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Enabler spell. 
• Required Spell: Enabler (p. 1 10, Street Gri-
moire)
NOISE ON THE LINE
Deckers, riggers, and other skilled Matrix users 
can present a unique problem for magicians. To 
prevent such issues before they can arise, this 
preparation increases the noise in the area, mak -
ing the Matrix more difficult to use and access. 
Few things are more likely to incite the hacker 
population than frequent use of this compound. 
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, enacts the Increase 
Noise spell. 
• Required Spell: Increase Noise (p. 1 16, 
Street Grimoire)
NOMW (NOT ON MY WATCH)
Sometimes the difference between living and dying 
is so razor thin, even a spell will not be fast enough. 
For this reason, alchemists created a contact prepa-
ration to stabilize critically wounded individuals just 
long enough to get them the help they need. 
• Trigger: Contact
• Effect: When contact is made, the spell 
Stabilize (p. 289, SR5) is enacted upon the 
target. 
• Required Spell: Stabilize
LIGHTNING BLADE 
Even with ceramics, plastics, and mystical armor, 
there are those who place their faith in a layer of 
metal between them and those who would do 
them harm. Alchemists have perfected a prepara-
tion to remind them of the error of their ways. By 
imbuing a weapon with the power of lightning, the 
protection of metal armor becomes nullified and 
the damage becomes resistible by the body alone.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: Written upon a blade or other weap-
on, when activated this preparation makes 
the next successful attack unable to be re-
sisted by metal armor. 
• Required Spell: Lightning Bolt (p. 284, SR5)
• 
SPIRIT ZAPPER
Spirits can serve as weapons both offensive and 
defensive, as well as the ultimate spies. This 
preparation is important for any magician wish-
ing to guard their secrets against spirits trespass-
ing on their astral domain.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: This preparation comes in many 
forms, from candles made of exotic materi-
als to runes and diagrams written out in dif-
ferent forms and languages. No matter the 
actual form, the effect remains. When acti-
vated, it creates a barrier just as the Mana 
Barrier spell, or the Offensive Mana Barrier 
spell, depending on the preparation. 
• Required Spell: Mana Barrier (p. 294, SR5) or 
Offensive Mana Barrier (p. 1 1 7, Street Grimoire)
STINK BOMB
A trap to disable a would-be thief with gut-wrench-
ing sickness, a tool to incapacitate enemies chas-
ing a runner down a darkened alley … there are 
myriad uses for the stink bomb, limited only by 
the cleverness of the user.
• Trigger: Command or Contact, depending 
on use
• Effect: On command or contact, dependent 
on the trigger chosen, the Stench spell is en-
acted over the area, affecting enemies and 
allies alike. 
• Required Spell: Stench (p. 1 13, Street Grimoire)
STOP THIEF!
Quick to produce and relatively inexpensive, these 
preparations are incredibly popular with talismon-
gers as both a deterrent as well as a demonstration. 
This preparation can be done on anything from a 
welcome mat with hidden writing to a throwable 
ball that bonds to whatever it touches when the 
command word is spoken. Stopping thieves in their 
tracks or marking them for later identification are 
common uses, though tagging people with an RFID 
that can be used for tracking or drone targeting are 
other possible options.
• Trigger: Command
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    199
===== PDF PAGE IDX 200 =====
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Glue Strip spell. 
• Required Spell: Glue Strip (p. 1 16, Street 
Grimoire)
TRUTH SERUM
When you absolutely must get to the truth, noth-
ing can beat this type of preparation. While it may 
require other types of coercion to get the target 
to actually speak, with this you can be assured 
whatever words come out of their mouth are 
the truth. Handcuffs and manacles are the most 
common forms of preparation, as they are easily 
locked on and activated. Some prefer to put this 
in pill form, just for the drama of making some-
one swallow a truth drug.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, this preparation en-
acts the Compel Truth spell upon the target. 
• Required Spell: Compel Truth (p. 1 14, Street 
Grimoire)
UP AND AT ’EM
It is always easier to help a comrade run than 
it is to haul an unconscious body. These occa-
sions are what this preparation is designed for. 
A quick slap of a patch and the command word, 
and even the most stunned individual will regain 
consciousness. If nothing else, they can then be 
awake to see any further attacks coming.   
• Trigger: Most commonly Command or 
Contact
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Awaken spell upon the target. 
• Required Spell: Awaken (p. 109, Street 
Grimoire)
WATCH YOUR STEP
Inventive users can find plenty of uses for a sud-
den sheet of ice. From sending vehicles chasing 
them crashing into the streets to rendering ene-
mies too worried about their footing to try to do 
anything else, the possibilities are endless.
• Trigger: Command
• Effect: When activated, this preparation 
enacts the Ice Sheet spell on the area. 
• Required Spell: Ice Sheet (p. 293, SR5)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
200    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 201 =====
THE SYNERGY OF 
ALCHEMY AND 
DARK TRADITIONS
> If you can manage to look away from the cool explosions, 
you’ll find that ultimately, alchemy is about methodology 
and preparation. If you can figure out how to reproduce 
results while cutting corners on the means of production, 
you have the edge. Some alchemists are willing to dive 
head first into the shadows of the dark traditions for any 
advantage. Those who practice such traditions aren’t 
the talkative type, and most aren’t willing to share their 
secrets at any price lest they be incriminated. So treat the 
information here as the rare and precious jewel it is.
> Megalith
Practitioners of the dark traditions gravitate 
toward alchemy, attracted to its dispassionate, re-
sults-orientated methodology of gaining power. 
They leverage the unique capabilities of alchemi-
cal tools and reagents to fuel their unending quests 
for power without the shackles of morality. In their 
pursuit of an exotic reagent or unknown formula, a 
dark alchemist will plunder a sacred burial ground, 
murder a kayeri for their cap, or even harvest the 
veins from a living adept via vivisection. These re-
pulsive experiments have secretly led to some of 
the newest formulas and potent compounds and 
preparations that even the most law-abiding find 
indispensable. 
BLOOD MAGIC
Alchemists who practice this dark tradition must 
surrender their squeamishness to forever walk in 
the shadows, surrendering completely to their am-
bition and hunger for power. Blood magicians har-
vest reagents through seduction, temptation, and 
sacrifice, making the conscious decision to trade 
the suffering of others for power and prestige. 
The great advantage of the dark alchemist le-
veraging blood magic is that reagents harvested 
from time-consuming sacrifice work as a perfect 
substitute for orichalcum (see Reagents, p. 316, 
SR5). This blood reagent must be utilized immedi-
ately, lest it forever lose its potency. However, the 
nature of such a harvesting requires the dark al-
chemist spend three times the normal duration to 
prepare the sacrifice, requiring sacred alchemical 
compounds such as poisons and paralytics to en-
sure the suffering and ultimate death of their vic-
tims. Practitioners of this tradition who combine it 
with alchemy also learn to combine their efforts 
into a gruesome whole. They may create any com-
pound or preparation to trigger at the moment of 
death, either of themselves or one of their victims. 
Blood magicians first discovered the infamous 
reagent known as veins of the adept (see p. 191), 
which is the core reagent required for a powerful 
alchemical compound with the ability to com-
pletely negate drain damage. Rumor has it that the 
unknown alchemist who discovered this reagent 
willingly shared their secret with the world to fuel 
an unending vendetta against adepts for some 
grave slight.
Sacrifices may be shared among blood magi-
cians without the dilution of the potency of the 
harvested reagent. A blood magician often pairs 
with a couple of apprentices and cultists who 
serve as additional allies—or in desperate times, 
as power sources. Together, they perform mul-
tiple sacrifices within an area to taint the mana 
with pain and suffering in order to synergize the 
reagents to their tradition. This takes repeated 
sacrifices and torture to accomplish, but few who 
are so far down the path of blood magic will flinch 
at such a minor requirement. They find synergy in 
any reagents that were once part of living, feeling 
beings. While they’d prefer to do the bloodletting 
and harvesting themselves, they will make use of 
what comes available. Areas of past pain and suf-
fering are the preferred places for harvesting re-
agents for a blood magician.
INSECT MAGIC
Followers of the Insect Way have a single, 
all-important goal: to seek a place with high am-
bient mana, fortify it, and then summon a queen 
to create a hive. To achieve this end, insect sha-
mans infect metahuman host bodies with lesser 
insect spirits. These infected hosts aid the shaman 
in progressing the goals of the hive, serving as de-
fenders, workers, and minions of the shaman who 
summoned them until their queen arrives. 
An alchemist who follows the Insect Way pos-
sesses an innate spiritual connection to the other-
worldly mana infused within the body of an infect-
ed host. They may leverage this to quickly harvest 
reagents from the organs of any infected host. This 
process kills the host, but the harvesting process 
takes half the normal time. The ease of harvest-
ing this key component allows insect shamans to 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    201
===== PDF PAGE IDX 202 =====
make great use of such abilities when hunting for 
other host bodies or defending the hive location 
itself. These alchemists have also been taught the 
secrets of poisons and toxins from their insect 
mentor spirits. They are able to mix this mana with 
their own biology to turn their very blood into a 
potent toxin. 
Insect shamans rarely venture far from their 
hive; they remain close to keep it safe and pro-
tect it from predators. They keep a close eye on 
their infected hosts to ensure the population small 
enough to stay hidden, but large enough that they 
may harvest reagents at a moment’s notice. The 
greatest advantage an insect shaman can have is 
time. The longer their presence goes unknown, the 
more powerful servants they can summon, and 
the more host bodies they can infect. When this 
leads to the successful summoning of a queen, 
there is even the potential of a potent spirit pact 
that can boost the power of an insect shaman to 
even greater levels. 
The harvested organs of an infected host can 
be refined into a compound that allows an astral 
shaman to manifest strongly enough to activate 
other prepared alchemical traps. Due to the om-
nipresent nature of insects within their home terri-
tories, the mentor spirits of an insect shaman can 
grant knowledge of any area heavily ambient in 
mana within that sphere of influence. This again 
cuts down the time it takes a follower of the Insect 
Way to harvest reagents that are already assured 
to be synergetic with their tradition. 
TOXIC MAGIC
Followers of the Twisted Way gain strength and 
power from the pollution and corruption of the 
Sixth World. These toxic mages seek to expand 
the areas ravaged by corruption through their 
own power, as well as by aiding those who ini-
tially created the damage. Poisoners believe they 
have discovered an unknown element of mana 
and that by spreading this pollution they increase 
their own power. Avengers merely lash out at 
the world, damaging friend and foe alike, in an 
all-consuming hatred spawned by the very envi-
ronment that sustains them. 
Toxic alchemists gain power from the taint-
ed mana that flows through polluted areas, and 
their reagents reflect this benefit. They do not 
suffer the normal disadvantage for using tainted 
reagents, but instead gain a fifty percent cut to re-
fining time when using them. When using tainted 
reagents, they increase the limit on any toxin- or 
poison-based alchemical compound or prepara-
tion by 1. These vile and twisted creations further 
spread the pollution and corruption for which the 
toxic practitioner is known. Those who combine 
alchemy with toxicity also find a secondary ben-
efit unknown to any but those practitioners: They 
become immune to death by disease. They suffer 
the side effects and remain infected for the dura-
tion, but the disease itself will never kill them. The 
corruption they live in maintains their life on the 
razor’s edge. 
Combining alchemy with the insanity of a 
toxic magician is akin to giving a child a gre-
nade. They are unflinching in pushing alchemi-
cal compounds and preparations far beyond any 
sane boundaries in their quest to expand areas 
of corruption. Free from the shackles of morali-
ty or ethics, they can develop everything from 
deadly poisons to plagues that ravage any eco-
system they find vulnerable. What is truly terri-
fying is that recent encounters with toxic magi-
cians have all seen them interested in virus-like 
plagues. Imagining a toxic magician able to per -
vert a virus like HMHVV to their own ends is tru-
ly the stuff of nightmares.
Areas ravaged by pollution are natural hab-
itats of the Twisted Way followers. There they 
make their lairs, or scour the land for reagents 
to use in their insane schemes. These areas are 
also convenient locations to test and further 
develop compounds and preparations, as even 
failures will increase the ambient toxicity which 
empowers the Toxic magician. Tainting these ar -
eas further also leads to increased mana levels, 
which make for a richer harvest when gathering 
reagents. 
INSECT SHAMAN VENOM
• Vector: Contact
• Speed: Immediate
• Penetration: 0
• Power: Equal to alchemist’s Magic rating
• Effect: Physical damage.
• Insect shaman venom is a toxic blood that burns upon 
contact with unprotected flesh. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
202    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 203 =====
RESEARCH, RUMORS, 
AND LEGENDS
> I spend most of my life looking over my shoulder. I thought 
the horrible things I learned at Aztechnology would be 
enough to fuel all my nightmares. You keep running and 
running, and eventually you see the whole of the world, 
and you wish you could be naïve again. Lately, I’ve been 
taking notes of rumors and various jobs that might need 
an alchemist’s touch. I might not live to see tomorrow, 
but maybe my formulas will live on. I left these secrets in 
care of a friend, just in case I become retired quietly in the 
shadows. A little knowledge is a dangerous thing. Don’t 
let this material get you into a place you can’t talk or fight 
your way out of.
> Megalith
PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
> Research alchemy long enough, and you’ll have a slew 
of tales of old bastards going mad trying to locate or 
recreate the Philosopher’s Stone. I spent a year and a 
half trying to crack that at Aztechnology. The corporate 
spooks would bring us rumors about someone making 
an advancement that looked promising. No one really 
believed it existed, but they really didn’t want the 
competition to prove us wrong. It wasn’t much different 
than the old days, really. You’d have academics keeping 
loose correspondence, confident that someone was 
about to figure it out and hoping it was going to be 
them. Not much different than your grandmother at a 
bingo hall, really. Eventually, I realized that being the 
first to shout bingo might not be the best idea. I’ve never 
regretted it. Best leave the amateurs to their game. 
> Megalith
Rumors about the Philosopher’s Stone have 
always intrigued and inspired those interested 
in mystic items. Alchemists who could turn lead 
into gold, guaranteeing unlimited wealth and the 
power that comes with it to whomever could 
possess this artifact. These stories rise and fall 
throughout the ages, and the cynical consider 
them just faerie tales. As the heightened activi-
ty of the fae has shown, sometimes faerie tales 
are more real than anyone could have imagined. 
Once more, the Philosopher’s Stone has become 
the talk of the magical world. From corporations 
to runners, everyone wants to know if the rumors 
are true, and if they are how they can get their 
piece of the action.
There are a couple persistent rumors that 
float around about the whereabouts of this leg-
endary material. The first belief is that it is an 
object belonging more to the fae than to the 
material plane. With the rise in interaction with 
the Seelie Court and the other denizens of Tír na 
nÓg, speculation is high that the Philosopher’s 
Stone may be a faerie artifact that is secretly 
one of the sources of their power and wealth. 
So few outside the realm have any idea of what 
truly happens within the faerie demesnes that 
this rumor has gained the most traction among 
the cynical. If it were true, it would be one tidy 
explanation for the sheer amount of wealth and 
magical power that the faerie lords and ladies 
seem invariably to possess. The value of orichal-
cum is so high, covert trading and sales would 
ensure that there was never a worry over nuyen 
in the Sixth World. 
One of the other most commonly held beliefs 
is that it isn’t an item, but a formula; a new se-
cret way for alchemists to refine reagents to cre-
ate orichalcum. Something that corps like Saed-
er-Krupp or Aztechnology have been working on 
for decades but aren’t sharing with anyone. Few 
would put it past a dragon to hoard the secret to 
a vast fortune—that’s pretty much SOP for them. 
Yet if it were real and in the hands of one of these 
corporations, most feel there would be some sort 
of evidence—or at the very least, a patent. While 
solid proof has not been found, people rang-
ing from the slickest decker to the most tradi-
tion-bound magician remain desperately curious 
to get their hands on any sort of clue that could 
lead to the stone and the unimaginable wealth it 
would bring. 
PLOTS IF YOU HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON YOUR TEAM:
• It takes an alchemist to discern truth from 
fiction when it comes to the Philospher’s 
Stone. Mr. Johnson is looking for just such 
an alchemist, and he hires you and your 
team to investigate a lead.
• A corp alchemist in a subsidiary of the Big 
Ten has made a breakthrough, and she is 
willing to sell it to the highest bidder. Your 
team has a chance to get to her before she 
can make her auction happen.
• You have managed to come into posses-
sion of a scrap of some formula. Finding 
the rest may lead to a discovery that is on 
everyone’s lips. Track down the other piec-
es and try your luck.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    203
===== PDF PAGE IDX 204 =====
PLOTS IF YOU DO NOT HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON THE TEAM:
• There’s a run in the works. A shipment of 
reagents that can be used to refine orichal-
cum is coming into town. Hitting the ship-
ment could net a small but tidy profit, but 
following it to the destination could bring 
in some information worth far more than a 
few nuyen. 
• An alchemist contact is targeted by a cor -
poration for acquisition. She doesn’t want 
to enter the corporate lifestyle and needs 
any help she can get to escape their securi-
ty team and take on a new life in the shad-
ows. Get it done and she’s willing to turn 
over a clue to a powerful artifact that has 
been in her family for generations.
• A Mr. Johnson who happens to be an al-
chemist was spurned by a partner and 
colleague walking out on years of collab-
oration, forming her own corporation. He 
wants to know what, if any, progress has 
been made and to what extent the IP of the 
former company is being built upon.
HARVESTING THE  
COURT OF SHADOWS
>  Word has it that Tír Tairngire and Tír na nÓg have a near-
infinite storehouse of unknown reagents they keep from 
those of us who live in the muck. I’ve tried here and there 
to make deals, do any job, or beg, borrow, and steal to 
gain access. Whatever the fae have in mind, they ain’t 
sharing with the likes of us. Once they threatened to turn 
me in, I quit trying.
> Megalith
The realms of Tír Tairngire and Tír na nÓg have 
always been a shrouded mystery. To this day, few 
know of the realms these nations hide, the gate-
ways to the planes of the true fae, which are ac-
cessible only through closely guarded and secret 
ways. While the masses may be unaware, the 
magical community, particularly alchemists, have 
begun to question the origin point of these re-
agents of legendary beasts. This has encouraged 
the brave and the foolhardy to begin to actively 
seek hidden paths into the realm of the Seelie 
Court. Seeking to acquire knowledge and pow -
er unseen on the earthly plane since the end of 
the Fourth World, these runners hope to be some 
of the first to explore, and exploit, what possible 
treasures might be found in secret forests and fa-
erie mounds. 
Already there have been documented explora-
tions into the hidden hearts of faerie. Some few 
adventurous souls have made their way to the 
realm of the Seelie Court and survived to tell the 
tale. More common are the stories of those who 
sought and failed to find the entrances, let alone 
make their way into the endless forest. More com-
mon are the denizens of faerie who have begun 
to make their way into the material plane of the 
Sixth World. These creatures, some mentioned 
only in legend and myth, now walk among other 
metahumans. Tales of the Baobhan sith or the kay-
eri have made their way to alchemists and talis-
mongers who lust after the possibility of trading in 
unobtainable reagents. Others seek these critters 
for experiments, wondering what might be possi-
ble with the anatomies of these beasts who have 
lived their lives surrounded by mana unfamiliar to 
the Sixth World. It is impossible to say who is the 
hunter and who is the hunted as both sides seek to 
find their own places in the world of corporations 
and shadows. 
With the growing knowledge of the existence 
of the Seelie Court and the doorways that lead to 
USING THE PHILOSOPHER’S  
STONE IN THE GAME
The Philosopher’s Stone is an incredibly potent item that 
could easily unbalance a game. It is also a legendary item and 
quest worthy of longtime runners and agents in the shadows. 
Gamemasters should be careful in how they introduce the 
Philosopher’s Stone into their game sessions. Low-level 
runners just starting out may be hired by more powerful agents 
to investigate leads, acquire reagents, or hit a corporation 
subsidiary for clues. More powerful runners might go after the 
Big Ten to get the secrets of corporate alchemy. Finding the 
Philosopher’s Stone itself should be only used as a climactic 
moment, or as a reason to paint a giant target on the backs 
of your runners to see how they handle it. The gamemaster 
is free to invent their own components for the formula and 
should feel free to keep its creation mercurial, requiring 
varying ingredients and procedures in what is the antithesis of 
established mundane chemistry.
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
204    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 205 =====
their home plane, the more suspicious have begun 
to believe that Tír Tairngire isn’t a bastion for the 
elves so much as a forward base. Old family lines 
tell conflicting stories of faerie allies from the past 
as well as of their alien emotions and power in bat-
tle. Very few governments are truly comfortable 
with the idea that the power of a hidden realm 
backs the growing strength of the elven nation, full 
of unknown reagents and powerful magic, to say 
nothing of untold beings that no one in the Sixth 
World has any idea how to combat. 
PLOTS IF YOU HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON YOUR TEAM:
• A local talismonger has come into a supply 
of reagents from the fabled realms of the 
faerie. Now strange and dangerous things 
are plaguing him wherever he goes. He 
wants to offload his inventory fast, and you 
may be the one to take them off his hands. 
If you’re willing to risk the danger, and have 
the nuyen to pay the bill, the possibility of 
rare and exotic reagents could be yours.
• An elf from Tír Tairngire has a proposition. 
A thief has found his way to the elven realm 
and stolen cache of valuable seeds that 
may even be reagents. She wants you to 
hunt down the thief and retrieve her prop-
erty, but she needs an alchemist to identify 
the missing items. Doing so could earn you 
an invitation to the hidden forests of the Tír.
• The opportunity to create a formula with 
unknown effects presents itself to the run-
ners. The current possessor of the formula 
can supply the location of the reagents, but 
she needs an alchemist who can handle 
the refinement process and the dangers 
that come with it. If you can get it done, 
and survive the process, this score could 
set you up for some time. 
PLOTS IF YOU DO NOT HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON THE TEAM:
• An adventurer is looking for a protection 
team to run cover while he attempts an 
incursion into the Faerie plane. He’s got a 
way in and out with the loot, but no job is 
done until the escape is clean. Your team 
must protect him from the location back to 
his safe house no matter what critters may 
try and come after him. 
• One of the Seelie themselves have come 
to the earthly plane. She’s in search of one 
of the more dangerous inhabitants of her 
realm who has escaped the boundaries and 
made its way here. It is up to your team to 
hunt this creature down and return it to the 
Seelie. Failure will lead to exposure, some-
thing the Seelie will not tolerate. The payoff 
is huge, but so are the risks.
• A fixer has had her supply of Faerie realm 
goods cut off from her source in Tir Tairn-
gire. She’s looking for you to investigate 
whether it was the elves who put a kink in 
her supply chain, or possibly something 
worse. Being the lone supplier of other -
worldly goods has made the fixer rich, but 
some risks may not be worth the rewards. 
INFECTED 
ALCHEMY
> I’ve had a good deal of complex entanglements with the 
Infected looking for my son. Some of them were passive, 
while others tried to bite me on sight. Every time I think 
my son has passed on, I hear rumors about Infected 
magicians working with alchemy. Sounds insane, right? 
Shouldn’t be possible, but when he left, he took some of 
my notebooks. If nothing else, my kid had a promising 
future with magic. Research of this kind falls under the 
category of things people shouldn’t mess with, lest the 
Almighty unleash a new plague. 
> Megalith
HMHVV is something we all know about. Most 
of us try to avoid it, while a few seek it out, thinking 
the powers it brings are worth the trade-offs. They’re 
DEALING WITH FAE
One thing all the stories agree on, no matter the fable or 
faerie tale, is that nothing is more dangerous than making a 
deal with a Faerie, except breaking one. Masters of contracts 
and language both, they are slippery creatures who will twist, 
bend, and interpret any word to make it suit their whims, 
without violating the letter of their agreements. They can also 
be unexpectedly powerful allies when handled correctly. As 
long as you keep your wits sharp, your aim sharper, and a 
spell ready at your fingers, you should be fine. Success brings 
reward beyond measure, and failure can lead to a fate worse 
than death. Just another night in the shadows, eh, chummer?
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    205
===== PDF PAGE IDX 206 =====
a minority, though; for every person looking to be-
come a vampire, there are a dozen who would be 
happy to have a cure that would allow them to live 
a normal metahuman life. As many people seeking 
to perform the impossible have done in the past, 
some of these individuals have turned to alchemy.
Alchemy and the Infected can be a dangerous 
mix. Compounds and preparations can enhance 
the already-potent abilities of a variety of different 
HMHVV strains. Recently, though, there have been 
discoveries of compounds that are anathema to 
some who have contracted the virus, and possibly 
a dream realized for others. A formula for a partic-
ular compound is rumored to have made its way 
to the hands of some few runners and possibly 
a corporation. Reportedly it impedes the further 
mutation of one infected with HMHVV. Such an in-
oculation could be the first step in a cure for HM-
HVV. This could be incredibly valuable—though 
there are some forces, notably agents of Asaman-
do, who would be interested in burying any such 
formula where it can never be found. 
PLOTS IF YOU HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON YOUR TEAM:
• A facilitator has come forward. There’s a 
powerful Infected magician who seeks re-
agents that can only be harvested in the 
direct light of the noonday sun. Find these 
reagents and bring them to him, and he’ll 
trade secrets found in the shadows. 
• Megalith, a well-known runner alchemist, 
has information on a possible location for 
his son. If you and your team can find and 
retrieve him, he’ll reward you handsomely 
with formulas and reagents he’s developed 
in his research.
• The scion of a wealthy family has contract-
ed HMHVV, and her family is desperate to 
see her condition stabilized. Conventional 
medical and magical assistance have failed. 
Her family has little hope for relief, but if her 
condition could be stabilized, they would 
pay handsomely. They’ll accept treatment 
from any source, even an alchemical one.
PLOTS IF YOU DO NOT HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON THE TEAM:
• An Infected gang has kidnapped the 
daughter of a powerful politician. Suppos-
edly they wish to use her for some ritual, 
so she’s still alive—for the time being. Bring 
her back alive and you’ll be rewarded. Save 
her and eliminate the vampires and you 
could be set for life.
• There are rumors of a stronghold of vam-
pires nearby. The first team sent to try to 
eliminate them suffered almost complete 
annihilation. The sole survivor returned 
with stories of elaborate magical traps 
and blood-red potions that increased their 
speed and power. Any team brave enough 
to approach them in their lair could come 
away with a treasure trove of valuable al-
chemical components and tools.
• There’s a bounty on vampire blood. Some 
say there’s a corp working on an actual 
cure for HMHVV, and they need blood for 
research. If you could harvest enough, you 
could earn a generous chunk of change—
whether the cure works or not.
ANCIENT SECRETS 
IN MODERN HANDS 
(CORPORATE ALCHEMY 
CRACKDOWN)
> 
I speak from personal experience when I say that the 
corporations are cracking down on unaligned alchemists. 
We’re a threat to their control. The right formula mixed 
with a new reagent and new brewing technique could 
create a compound or preparation that could change 
the world. Sounds great, right? Why would anyone 
fight that? Because the corporations don’t want things 
to change. Profits are up. And anything outside of their 
USING A POSSIBLE HMHVV CURE
The Infected make NPCs for any game, especially with 
their capabilities enhanced by alchemy or other magical 
skills. They can be challenging antagonists or powerful allies 
depending on the actions and reactions of the characters. A 
possible magical compound that is both addicting but also a 
way to stall an infection of HMHVV from taking effect is also 
a valuable resource to any character who may have gotten 
infected. Runners may also be hired to steal stores of the 
compound, kidnap an alchemist who is capable of creating it, 
or be sent out to find the reagent necessary for its production. 
Characters who learn this formula could even find themselves 
targets of similar kidnappings from desperate corporate 
parents who wish to save a child—or themselves. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
206    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 207 =====
control challenges that. If one of us discovered a simple 
compound to cure HMHVV, it would tank their aftercare 
division. Misery brings profits. The problem with 
alchemists is that we can share our magic. Hope is the 
only cure for misery. 
> Megalith
Alchemy is the hot new research trend in cor -
porate research, with significant funding being 
diverted to alchemical divisions of Aztechnology, 
Mitsuhama, Ares, and other corps. Companies 
that once focused on things like designer drugs 
and pharmaceuticals are now just as interested in 
alchemical compounds and the uses of reagents. 
Alchemical substances have been developed with 
a variety of industrial applications as corporations 
rush to integrate new materials into product de-
signs. The trend has created secondary markets as 
the manufacturing of technological devices to aid 
in alchemical research and production has surged 
due to a wide range of efforts to cash in on the lat-
est craze. Amidst all of this, corporate lawyers and 
lobbyists are working overtime seeking to secure 
legislation granting patent and intellectual prop-
erty rights to their corporate benefactors, as cor -
porate security is being tested by deckers looking 
to pry away a few secrets. Rumors of the Philoso-
pher’s Stone, the new and exotic reagents hitting 
the market, and espionage attempts looking to 
lift formulas for compounds and preparations are 
all indicators of the growing popularity of alche-
my in the Sixth World. Where demand exists, the 
corps see the opportunity to make a profit. Patent-
ing compound formulas and litigating those who 
might attempt to duplicate them; designing and 
producing custom compounds for the wealthy 
and powerful; and sending shadowrunners on cor-
porate-espionage raids are all on the rise. Because 
of this, there has also been a corporate crackdown 
on all things alchemical. Agents of different corpo-
rations have begun frequenting the shops of talis-
mongers to identify their compounds and pursue 
any possible copyright infringement. There is also 
plenty of effort going into hiring freelancers so 
that their ideas and creations become corporate 
property. The possibility of large piles of nuyen 
has made information on alchemy and its practi-
tioners valuable, and so those who work outside 
the corporate structure are finding themselves in 
an increasingly uncomfortable spotlight.
Alchemists who accept corporate offers have 
become like songbirds in gilded cages. They are 
treated well, worked hard, and utterly incapable of 
leaving once they have signed their name on that 
dotted line. Some few have managed to escape, 
at least for now, but most are lured by the prom-
ises of an easy life without ever realizing they are 
signing away their freedom. Word on the streets 
is that many regret that decision and continually 
seek a way out. 
PLOTS IF YOU HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON YOUR TEAM:
• An agent of one of the Big Ten is on to your 
alchemist. Rumors have spread about their 
talent, and these agents are not taking no 
for an answer. Their overtures are under -
mining your street cred and drawing un-
wanted attention to some of your dealings. 
Flee to a new place, or crack corporate 
security and erase any trace of their exis-
tence. The choice is yours, but choose fast.
• A client has a corporate alchemist rela-
tive who they haven’t heard from in far too 
long. They were supposedly working on 
something major but abruptly broke con-
tact. They are willing to pay for information 
or contact. The more you can find out, the 
more you’ll get paid. As a side benefit, the 
client could care less how you accomplish 
your task. There may be some clue in the 
alchemical notes she found.
• Your last job brought with it the reward of a 
new formula, liberated thanks to some cre-
ative hacking, and the corporations want it. 
Time to find out what it is, what it does, and 
why they want it before they track you down. 
PLOTS IF YOU DO NOT HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON THE TEAM:
• Ms. Johnson has a client who wants out. All 
but permanently indentured as a corporate 
alchemist, they’ll do anything to escape 
their cage. Get in, get the client, and get out.
• When you gather enough alchemists to-
gether, there are secrets to be had. A tal-
ented decker with some on-site backup 
may be able to score some sweet info for 
sale if they can penetrate corporate securi-
ty and break into a corporate alchemy lab.
• A startup corporation has an alchemical 
prototype that they’re transporting to a po-
tential client. The product of thousands of 
hours and millions of nuyen, its status as 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    207
===== PDF PAGE IDX 208 =====
intellectual property has yet to be legally 
established. The corporation is willing to 
take no risks with its transport and wants 
you as additional security as it moves. The 
catch is, there’s a bigger corporation who 
sees the prototype as derivative of their 
work, and they’re not going to leave this to 
the lawyers—some bigger guns have been 
dispatched.
TOXICITY
> Toxic alchemists are starting to give the rest of us a bad 
name, feeding off the misery, and killing the world for 
temporary power. If you can end one of these bastards, 
you are doing us all a favor. 
> Megalith
Practitioners of the Twisted Way are a terrifying 
proposition to any who hear of them. Feeding on 
corruption to increase their power is bad enough 
on its own. When you add to that the power of 
alchemy to refine mana to a more powerful form, 
they truly become the stuff of nightmares. Where 
most of the toxic magicians and adepts are rath-
er conspicuous, prone to flashy spells of corrup-
tion and pollution, those who combine these skills 
with alchemy take what might have been a deadly 
but small impact and expand it into a significantly 
broader threat.
One particular unintended side effect of toxic 
alchemists has been a blessing for the corpora-
tions. By pointing out the damage they cause not 
just to individuals but to entire areas, the corps 
have been able to assure the public that alchemy 
is best left to the professionals, paving the way for 
regulatory practices which would provide barriers 
to entry for smaller competitors. Furthermore, this 
perception has lowered public opinion of alche-
my in general, making practitioners far warier of 
announcing their profession unless under the pro-
tection of corporate security. Chemistry done in 
the lab, after all, is research, but chemistry done in 
the basement is potential terrorism.
Those alchemists and talismongers who har -
vest reagents have their own complaints about 
Toxic magicians. Reportedly, they are the only 
ones who can truly gain benefit out of tainted re-
agents, and they aren’t willing to just take the left-
overs of others. They are going out and purpose-
fully corrupting entire neighborhoods and forests 
to taint the ambient mana of the reagents within. 
This drives away competition for reagents from 
the alchemists and talismongers who cannot har -
vest anything of worth from these polluted places.  
 
PLOTS IF YOU HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON YOUR TEAM:
• A toxic alchemist has entered the area and 
begun his campaign of tainting the local 
ambient mana. Your team’s alchemist has 
got her work cut out for her, as only al-
chemy can halt the toxic spread. If he isn’t 
stopped and soon, there will be nothing 
but tainted reagents safe to harvest any -
where in the surrounding area.
 
• The only source of drop bear saliva in the 
local area has become warped and twisted 
by toxic energy. Find the source, destroy it, 
and cleanse the reagents before those who 
have been taking the compound to resist 
infection need their next dose. 
• An alchemical drug has been spreading, 
rumored to be highly addictive while slow-
ly exposing the user to toxicity. Your team’s 
alchemist needs to work to inoculate the 
spread of those afflicted while tracking the 
product back to its source.
PLOTS IF YOU DO NOT HAVE  
AN ALCHEMIST ON THE TEAM:
• Land around an old shrine in the woods 
has begun to shift from a forest glade to a 
bog-like swamp. No one knows why, but 
the locals want answers. Mr. Johnson will 
pay you to investigate and find out what is 
causing it.
CORPORATE ALCHEMISTS
Characters who are alchemists may find themselves 
targeted by corporations looking to recruit them. Runners 
could be hired to kidnap a promising researcher from one 
corp to another or prevent such a planned kidnapping. There 
are myriad ways that the crackdown on alchemy can be 
implemented within a game. The rumors of the Philosopher’s 
Stone or the reagents from the Seelie Court are two ways to 
bring alchemists to the attention of a corporation or subsidiary, 
leading to a need to either escape or make a deal. No matter 
the power level, having an alchemist in the group or known to 
them as an ally offers a very easy hook into any corporate plot. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
208    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 209 =====
• Someone has tainted a shipment of one 
of the newest designer drugs. Instead of 
an out-of-body sensation, it rots the body 
from within, causing severe damage and 
possible death. A wealthy socialite recently 
died from it, and his mother wants revenge. 
She’s paying fat stacks of nuyen to the per-
son who brings her the one responsible. 
• A client wants help destroying a pharma-
ceutical distributor who has supposedly 
been selling knock-offs for top-shelf prices. 
After the job is complete, the truth comes 
out that they were actually helping the 
community, and the client wanted them 
dead. Who was the client? What motive 
did they have to destroy hope? The an-
swers could be deadly for all involved. 
THE ALCHEMIST’S 
GUIDE TO 
SHADOWRUNNING
> Alchemy conjures images of nebbish scholars huddled 
over bubbling beakers and poring over ancient tomes. 
Why would a hardcore team of professionals want an 
alchemist on the payroll? Give me enough time and 
resources, and there’s no telling the amount of mayhem I 
can manage. I’ve robbed corporate warehouses, disrupted 
bug hives, fought bloody territory wars, and not once did 
the other side see what was coming. Here’s some tips and 
tricks of the trade for those of you looking to make a run.
> Megalith
The basic rules for alchemy are easy to mas-
ter (see p. 304, SR5), but the art of running an 
alchemist through a run takes skill and wit. Here’s 
a series of subtle tactics and creative tricks to 
help any budding alchemist become a successful 
shadowrunner.
FINDING THE SWEET SPOT: 
PLANNING FOR DRAIN
Drain is the price all magicians, including alche-
mists, pay to pit their will against the universe. 
Alchemical compounds and preparations have 
a finite duration that depends on the Potency of 
the spell cast. This means anything an alchemist 
brews has a finite shelf life that may be augment-
ed via special reagents and alchemical tools such 
as the Vault of Ages (see New Alchemical Tools, 
p. 192). The sweet spot for a prepared alchemist 
is the period of time between when they have re-
covered from the drain of brewing their creation 
but before the Potency of said creation fizzles. 
Effective shadowrun teams work on a scheduled 
timeline to take advantage of the alchemist’s full 
destructive powers.
SELECTING THE BEST  
SPELLS FOR ALCHEMY
The watchwords for all alchemical creations are 
reliability and predictability. Alchemical com-
pounds and preparations work best when creat-
ed from short-term sustained spells that you can 
trigger with a simple command and then leave to 
do their jobs, such as Antidote (see p. 288, SR5) 
or Ice Sheet (see p. 293, SR5). 
Avoid complicated spells that require great-
er amounts of targeting or manipulating specific 
targets. Sustained spells that don’t require a large 
number of hits are good for alchemy, since they 
are sustained for (Potency) minutes, giving them 
more time to have their effect as intended.
Alchemy requires an Opposed Test at creation, 
which can reduce Potency. Spell Force during al-
chemical creation is vital, as it defines the prepa-
ration’s Magic. Many alchemists elect to overcast 
during the brewing process if they have the time 
to recover from the Drain. 
Many frightening spells have a high Force re-
quirement that makes them a poor investment 
for an alchemical creation. Wherever possible, 
it’s more effective to leverage multiple low -
USING TOXIC REAGENTS
Toxic alchemists are not just rampaging monsters to be easily 
identified and destroyed. To make them true villains instead 
of just bad guys, consider more subtle schemes to introduce 
them into a game. Instead of initiating widespread destruction, 
have them kill off an insignificant-seeming creature in an area 
that turns out to be vital to the predator/prey cycle. They can 
sit back and watch the whole system crumble. Characters can 
determine how to handle such an event, deciding whether they 
wish to stop them, use them for their own purposes, or turn 
them against their enemies. These all could be viable solutions, 
each with their own risks and rewards. Another interesting way 
to introduce the concept of toxic alchemists is to slowly reduce 
the amount or the integrity of the reagents any alchemist in 
the group is gathering. Investigating why will lead to answers, 
followed by more questions. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< ADVANCED ALCHEMY    209
===== PDF PAGE IDX 210 =====
er-Force spells to attack others, rather than try 
for a single higher-Force preparation to deliver a 
megahit strike.
DIRTY DEEDS AND  
TRICKS: WATCHING  
THE DOMINOES FALL
Alchemical creations will always be weaker than 
live spells from a magician, but they have several 
advantages. 
Unlike a magician who needs to cast multiple 
spells to increase the abilities of their teammates, 
an alchemist can prepare compounds that are ready 
to go at a moment’s notice. Increasing the reflexes 
of your street samurai or granting your sniper the 
Sharpshooter compound (p. 197) are as simple as 
a command word, with the drain already handled.
Defending your home base is almost as import-
ant as going out on a run. Having a safe haven to 
retreat to is worth the time and effort an alchemist 
must expend to trap and defend. Preparations with 
contact triggers like Abandon All Hope (p. 198) can 
be set before leaving so anyone attempting to enter 
while you are gone suffers the effects. 
Alchemy is all about preparation versus the in-
the-moment needs of spellcasting. Concentrating 
on alchemical effects that are situational in nature 
ensures that even after heavy spellcasting, a magi-
cian can be useful. Alchemical Duct Tape (p. 194) to 
fix a getaway vehicle can be very useful at the end 
of a run, especially if you are suffering from drain 
due to spells cast up to that point.
Being aware of the different types of triggers 
and how to best use them in preparations and com-
pounds is critical. Some contact triggers are not as 
valuable as commands or anchoring a spell to a 
set time delay. Setting up grenade-style traps with 
timed triggers will allow you to cause distractions in 
other areas. This can help provide a clean getaway 
while attention is elsewhere.
Alchemists may only activate one command 
trigger per Combat Turn. So plan ahead on the or-
der in which things will be needed. Going into a run 
with a firm idea on how to best utilize your com-
pounds and preparations is a major key to success.
Make use of the tools available. Having a con-
tact poison gas ready to go in an atomizer offers 
you a quick reaction that doesn’t require a com-
mand, allowing you to set off other preparations or 
compounds while still incapacitating your enemies. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
210    ADVANCED ALCHEMY >>
===== PDF PAGE IDX 211 =====
INDEX
ALCHEMICAL TOOLS
Atomizer 193
Alembic 193
Athanor 193
Crucible 193
Vault of ages 193
COMPOUNDS
Alchemical duct tape 194
Astral bond 195
Astral increase 194
Baobhan’s tears 195
Drain away 195
Dulled edges 195
Feel no pain 195
Force of personality 196
HMHVV II Inhibitor 196
Laminate 196
Perfect Sight 196
Sharpshooter 197
Unstoppable vigor 197
Water breathing 197
MASTERY QUALITIES
Adept Healer 31
Alchemical Armorer 31
Alchemical Bomb Maker 31
Animal Familiar 31
Apt Pupil 32
Arcane Bodyguard 32
Arcane Improviser 32
Archivist 32
Astral Bouncer 32
Astral Infiltrator 32
Barehanded Adept 33
Blood Necromancer 33
Chain Breaker 33
Chakra Interrupter 34
Charlatan 34
Chosen Follower 35
Close Combat Mage 35
Dark Ally 35
Death Dealer 35
Dedicated Conjurer 36
Dedicated Spellslinger 36
Dual-Natured Defender 36
Durable Preparations 36
Elemental Master 36
Flesh Sculpter 37
Healer 37
Illusionist 37
Items of Power 38
Mage Hunter 38
Missile Deflector 38
Mystic Foreman 38
Mystic Pitcher 38
Pacifist Adept 39
Potion Maker 39
Practiced Alchemist 39
Puppet Master 39
Reckless Spell Master 39
Renaissance Ritualist 40
Revenant Adept 40
Shock Mage 40
Skinwalker 40
Spectral Warden 40
Spell Jammer 40
Spirit Hunter 40
Spiritual Lodge 41
Spiritual Pilgrim 41
Sprawl Tamer 41
Stalwart Ally 42
Taboo Transformer 42
Vexcraft 42
Worship Leader 42
MENTOR SPIRITS
Arcana 95
Dark King 98
Death 96
Dove 94
Great Mother 99
Green Man 98
Holy Text 95
Moon 98
Oak 99
Planar Entity 95
Rat (alt) 100
Spider (alt) 100
Stag 99
Sun 98
Tohu Wa-Bohu 97
War 97
Wolf (alt) 100
METAMAGICS
Astralnaut 44
Harmonious defense 46
Harmonious reflection 46
Improved astral form 44
Noble sacrifice 46
Paradigm shift 43
Predator feast 131
Reckless necro conjuring 45
Soul tether 131
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA  <<
<< INDEX    211