the SIN number itself. Related information such as bio-
metric data will likely be missing or obviously false if 
checked (“Hey, this is the DNA of a chicken ...”). Other 
issues may be the consistency, or fit, of the identity to 
the individual. If a runner just needs an identity—any 
identity—right now, they may end up purchasing a SIN 
for a ten-year-old Nigerian girl. Higher Rating, and thus 
more expensive, fake SINs have been lovingly crafted 
over time with a great deal of attention to detail. An 
identity will be chosen that matches the age and na-
tionality of the person purchasing it, and it will have 
plausible supporting information such as travel and 
purchasing history. Biometric data associated with 
a high-Rating SIN will be from a real person with the 
same sex and nationality as the purchaser with (if the 
extra fee is paid) matching organic samples available 
(blood, skin cells, hair—just don’t ask where they came 
from). For availability and prices of purchasing Fake 
SINs, see p. 367.
CHECKING A FAKE SIN
While having some sort of SIN is mandatory for a 
person to interact in any way with the “civilized” (as 
they would put it) world, the level to which the SIN is 
checked and verified varies widely based on the situa-
tion and who is doing the checking. In game terms the 
sophistication of the system doing the checking and 
how much information it is able to verify is represented 
by its Rating. Less sophisticated units will perform only 
the most basic checks, while more sophisticated ones 
will perform a deeper analysis with cross-verification. 
In game terms, the gamemaster should make a Simple 
Device Rating x 2 Test with a threshold equal to the 
rating of the fake SIN (use Device Ratings, p. 234, for 
SIN verification system ratings). If the number of hits is 
under the threshold, the system reports no problem. If 
the threshold is reached but not exceeded, the system 
reports that something seems “odd” with the SIN and 
will recommend that the operator investigate further. 
Whether the operator actually does anything is up to 
them. If the threshold is exceeded, the system reports 
the SIN as false and may immediately notify the author-
ities. At this point, the fake SIN is considered burned.
BURNED SINS
When a fake SIN has been checked and found to be 
false, the SIN Verification System notes this immediate-
ly. If it is connected to the Matrix (and what isn’t these 
days), it reports the fake SIN, via a special emergency 
message, back to the SIN registry system of the coun-
try in which the verification takes place. Any further 
use of the fake SIN automatically fails. At this point, the 
runner or person using the fake SIN should abandon it 
for good. If that’s not an option, there is small chance 
that it can still be used. A SIN is only marked as burned 
instantly in the country where it was detected. Data 
sharing between countries is not always perfect or in-
stantaneous. At the gamemaster’s discretion, a SIN that 
has been burned in one country may not be burned in 
a different country.
DROP-IN 
LOCATIONS
More often than a gamemaster wants, characters will 
decide to go somewhere unexpected. This can leave 
the gamemaster in a bind, as they may have to create a 
detailed location on the fly. Even when they don’t have 
to improvise, gamemasters sometimes have trouble 
creating the amount of detail that may be required (or 
desired) for a location. What follows in this section are 
a series of generic drop-in locations that can be used in 
your Shadowrun game. They can be used as-is, or taken 
as a starting point and then modified to suit the specific 
needs of the game.
HELL-HOLE BAR
When living your life from day to day is a mighty strug-
gle, you can be sure that people are going to want a 
drink. The hell-hole bar is one of the only forms of orga-
nized business that a person is likely to find if they are 
wandering the Redmond Barrens, El Infierno, Aurora 
Warrens, or any other area of urban decay and aban-
donment. Getting a drink here can literally kill a person, 
felled either by the rough patrons of the bar or by the 
foul excuse for what they call liquor (brewed in some 
cobbled-together excuse for a still in the basement). 
However, since these areas almost never draw the eye 
of any law enforcement, or anyone with much self-re-
spect for that matter, they make an ideal location to 
make a deal or have a meeting, away from any notice. 
Security in these kinds of places is generally very light. 
SIN VERIFICATION DETAILS
RATING WHAT’S CHECKED
1
Do you have a SIN?
2
Basic redundancy check on the number and 
vital statistics
3
Redundancy check on number and statistics; 
query for external data attached to SIN
4
Verify all vital statistics; external data 
checked for obvious conflicts; biometric must 
be present
5
Full verification and consistency check; 
biometrics tested against sample
6
All possible verification; multiple biometric 
samples must match; random supporting 
data verified externally
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
368    Drop-In Locations >>
