person in the global information system and is attached 
to every piece of information associated with them in 
the Matrix. No aspect of modern or legal life can func-
tion without a SIN. Those who don’t have one can’t get a 
job, can’t buy food, can’t even walk down the street. To 
the system, these people don’t exist.
ISSUING A SIN
A SIN is issued by a country or extraterritorial corpora-
tion (AA or AAA rating) at the time a person becomes 
a citizen. This is generally when a person is born “le-
gally” in that country somewhere—a hospital, clinic, or 
maybe even at home with the assistance of a Renraku 
DulaDroneTM. A new SIN will be issued in the case of a 
change in citizenship. The SIN itself is a string of char-
acters generated using some of the person’s vital sta-
tistics fed into an incredibly complicated mathematical 
algorithm. This guarantees that no two SINs will ever 
be the same. However, this means that anyone with 
access to the proper software, like law enforcement 
agents and other government officials, can know sev-
eral things just by looking at the SIN: your name, birth 
date, place of birth, and nation that issued the SIN. A 
set of biometric data including DNA, retinal scan, and 
fingerprints will also be taken and logged into the sys-
tem, associated with the newly created SIN. All of this 
information is then registered with two master data-
bases: one maintained by the country that issued the 
SIN, and the Global SIN Registry (GSINR) controlled by 
the Corporate Court. These datastores are among the 
most secure on the planet, with multiple off-line back-
ups for each.
LICENSES
A basic SIN allows a person to function within the most 
basic parameters of the law. If a person wants to operate 
outside these very confining strictures, they need spe-
cial permission in the form of a license. What actions or 
items require a license vary widely with the laws of the 
country, but there are some common similarities shown 
in the Common Licenses Table below. Acquiring a li-
cense (legally) is, again, dependent on the laws of the 
country. For the most part, acquiring a license involves 
making an application, paying some sort of fee, a SIN 
check, and possibly passing one or more certification, 
testing, or training programs. The exact details of acquir-
ing a license are left up to the gamemaster, but govern-
ment bureaucracies are notoriously slow and frustrating.
FAKE SINS
For those without the privilege (or curse) of being born 
with a SIN, there is very little choice in how they can 
live. You either get issued a real SIN after birth (which 
requires an act of government—good luck with that!), 
live your life on the outside (which most choose to 
do), or get yourself a fake SIN. Although SIN registry 
databases are incredibly secure, they are still accessible 
online (they have to be) which makes them vulnerable. 
Demand and value for fake SINs is such that many of the 
shadier organizations in the world, including all major 
criminal syndicates, make a business of creating fake 
SINs. Getting a fake SIN created and registered with all 
of the proper authorities is a long and involved process 
of hacking and data fraud that exploits loopholes and 
other identified flaws in the system. Generally speak-
ing, the more time that is taken in crafting a false iden-
tity, the more believable (or “real”) it becomes. Hastily 
created identities may work if someone just wants to 
be able to buy a Nuke ‘em Burger at the Stuffer Shack, 
but it won’t hold up to any sort of scrutiny.
The amount of time and care taken in creating a 
fake SIN is represented by its Rating. A low Rating SIN 
consists of only the most basic information—such as 
LICENSE EXAMPLES
LICENSE
SITUATION
Item
Any item with Availability “R”
Magic
License to practice magic, registered 
Awakened Individual
Spell Weapon
Knowledge and use of a single Combat 
Spell
Technomancy
Registered technomancer, license to 
use Resonance abilities
Occupational
Registered professional (doctor, nurse, 
electrician, private detective, etc.)
FAKE SIN DETAILS
RATING ATTRIBUTES
1
Random anybody, age, nationality, and sex 
may not match; no supporting data
2
Rough match; sex matches, age and 
nationality “pretty close,” no supporting data
3
Good match; sex, age, and nationality match; 
supporting data, but obviously fake
4
Casually plausible; sex, age, and nationality 
match; supporting data appears valid only on 
cursory checks
5
Good fit; all statistics match; valid biometrics 
for another person (with samples); some 
supporting data and history)
6
Alternate life; all statistics match; valid 
biometrics with samples; complete and 
entirely believable history
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
<< Identification    367
