instantly severing the direct connection. This does not 
harm the cable.
Headjammer: The headjammer is used by security 
personnel to neutralize implanted commlinks. When 
it’s attached to your head (or other body part) and ac-
tivated, it works in the same way as any other jammer, 
with its effects limited to you and your augmentations. 
Removing a headjammer from someone without the 
proper key requires a Hardware + Logic [Mental] or a 
Locksmith + Agility [Physical] (8, 1 Complex Action) 
Extended Test. Removing a Headjammer from your-
self without the proper key is an Escape Artist + Agility 
[Physical] (4) Test, requiring a Complex Action.
Jammer: This device floods the airwaves with electro-
magnetic jamming signals to block out wireless and ra-
dio communication. The jammer generates noise equal 
to its Device Rating. The area jammer affects a spherical 
area—its rating is reduced by 1 for every 5 meters from 
the center (similar to the blast rules for grenades). The 
directional jammer affects a conical area with a 30-de-
gree spread—its rating is reduced by 1 for every 20 me-
ters from the center. The jammer only affects devices 
(and personas on those devices) that are within the jam-
ming area, but it affects all of them. Walls and other ob-
stacles may prevent the jamming signal from spreading 
or reduce its effect (gamemaster’s discretion).
Wireless: You can set your jammer to not interfere 
with devices and personas you designate.
Micro-transceiver: This classic short-range com-
municator has been favored by professional operatives 
since the 2050s. It doesn’t do anything special, it just 
lets you communicate by voice with other micro-trans-
ceivers and commlinks that you (and the other person) 
choose, within a kilometer. The micro-transceiver con-
sists of an ear bud and an adhesive subvocal micro-
phone (p. 439), both of which are commonly available 
in hard-to-spot designs.
Wireless: The micro-transceiver’s range becomes 
worldwide.
Tag eraser: This handheld device creates a strong 
electromagnetic field perfect for burning out RFID tags 
and other unshielded electronics. It is probably strong 
enough to destroy a commlink, and you might want to 
keep it away from your cyberdeck just in case. When you 
bring the eraser within 5 millimeters of an electronic de-
vice and push the button, the device takes 10 boxes of 
Matrix damage (resisted normally). The extremely short 
range makes it hard to use on targets like vehicles, most 
drones, maglocks, and cyberware (and by the time you 
open them up to get at the electronics, you’ve already 
done plenty of damage). The tag eraser has one charge 
but can be fully recharged at a power point in 10 seconds.
Wireless: The tag eraser recharges fully in an hour by 
induction.
White noise generator: This device creates a field 
of random noise, masking the sounds within its area 
and preventing direct audio surveillance. All Perception 
Tests to overhear a conversation within (Rating) meters 
of a white noise generator receive a negative dice pool 
modifier equal to the generator’s Rating. If more than 
one generator is in use, only count the highest rating. A 
white noise generator is redundant in a noisy environ-
ment (such as a nightclub or a firefight) and does not 
help to curtail video surveillance or jam wireless signals.
Wireless: The white noise generator’s effective radius 
is tripled.
SOFTWARE
Software can be purchased as an online download or less 
commonly on chip from physical stores. Datasofts, map-
softs, shopsofts, and tutorsofts can be easily stored and 
accessed on a commlink, dataterminal, or cyberdeck.
Agents and cyberprograms: These are used in cy-
berdecks and are explained in Programs, p. 243.
Autosofts: For information on these programs for 
drones, see p. 269.
Datasofts: Datasofts encompass a wide variety of in-
formation files, databases containing information on ev-
erything from hydraulic fracturing to 18th century roman-
tic poetry. An appropriate datasoft gives you a +1 bonus 
to your Mental limit on related Knowledge Skill Tests.
Mapsoft: Mapsoft programs feature detailed infor-
mation about a particular area, from streets to business/
residential listings to topographical, census, GPS and 
environmental data. An interactive interface allows you 
to quickly determine the best routes and directions, lo-
cate the nearest spot of your choice, or create your own 
customized maps. If a wireless link is maintained, the 
map automatically self-updates with the latest data from 
GridGuide. Of course, this feature also means that the 
mapsoft can be used to track your location. At the gam-
emaster’s discretion, mapsofts provide a +1 limit bonus 
to Navigation Tests made to navigate the area they cover.
Shopsofts: Shopping apps like Clothes Horse, Cave-
at Emptour, and Guns Near Me provide pricing break-
downs and user reviews for comparison shopping 
purposes, both for standard goods and black market 
purchases. Shopsofts self-update regularly to stay cur-
>> STREET GEAR <<
COMMUNICATIONS
DEVICE
AVAIL
COST
Bug scanner (Rating 1-6)
(Rating)R
Rating x 100¥
Data tap
6R
300¥
Headjammer (Rating 1-6)
(Rating)R
Rating x 150¥
Jammer, area (Rating 1-6)
(Rating x 3)F
Rating x 200¥
Jammer, directional 
(Rating 1-6)
(Rating x 2)F
Rating x 200¥
Micro-transceiver
2
100¥
Tag eraser
6R
450¥
White noise generator 
(Rating 1-6)
Rating
Rating x 50¥
<< Electronics    441
