between a metahuman and an animal and can also pin-
point gender, but are otherwise not advanced enough to 
single out an individual. In order to pick up a scent, the 
scanner rolls its Device Rating against a threshold of 3 (2 
for characters with tailored pheromone bioware).
Magnetic anomaly detectors (MADs) detect metallic 
substances for the purpose of finding concealed weap-
onry. Naturally, MADs do not work against non-metallic 
substances like wood, stone, or plastic. To determine if 
the detector finds a weapon, make a test using the de-
vice’s rating as the dice pool; a single hit detects any fer-
rous-metal weapons or objects (guns, knives, etc).
Millimeter wave detection systems, also known as 
cyberware scanners, process video taken in the milli-
meter wave spectrum to identify the energy signature of 
cyberware and concealed items (specifically weapons) 
on a person. These devices can “see through” thick lay-
ers of clothing and other concealment to identify items 
from a distance of fifteen meters away. To determine if 
the detector scans cyberware or a prohibited item, roll 
the Device Rating and compare the hits scored to the 
thresholds given on the Cyberware Scanner Table. Milli-
meter wave scans can detect any non-biological item by 
its shape and composition, assuming the item is listed 
in the device’s database. If the threshold is reached, the 
scanner detects the item/implant and notes its general 
locations and type; additional hits provide more detail 
(function, model, grade, etc.).
AUTOMATED DEFENSES
Automated gun systems are simply weapon-mounted 
drones placed in fixed locations (usually with a 180-de-
gree firing arc) or on slide-mounted track systems. 
These systems are typically loaded with basic sensors 
and Targeting autosofts and follow all the standard 
rules for drones (see p. 269).
Containment systems entail a kind of trap mecha-
nism: when an alarm is triggered, shutters drop down 
over windows, doors shut and lock, and sliding walls or 
gates may be activated. They may also include laser or 
monowire mazes and radio jamming. The objective is 
to detain intruders within a confined area, after which 
they may be either removed or “neutralized.”
Gas delivery systems can be insidious, dispersing 
gas in a potentially undetectable manner. Dispersal sys-
tems can fill an area of 30 cubic meters in one Combat 
Turn. The gamemaster determines how far and how 
quickly a gas spreads. The gamemaster may secretly 
conduct Perception Tests to see if any characters detect 
the gas, basing the threshold on how noticeable the gas 
is (many gases are colorless and odorless). Characters 
equipped with an olfactory scanner (see p. 452) may be 
alerted by their gear. See p. 408 for details on various 
gases and how they will affect characters.
Marking systems are designed to tag intruders with 
a discreet mark so that they can be identified later if cap-
tured. Marking methods include ultraviolet dye, RFID 
tags, DNA-encoded material, or even nanite tags. The 
markers are typically sprayed unobtrusively over exits 
and other traffic areas.
IDENTIFICATION
Your average Joe Wageslave in the Sixth World doesn’t 
give a second thought to their identity in the system. 
They get up in the morning, go to work, buy the gro-
ceries, pay the bills, and go to bed in their living space. 
They don’t think about who knows who they are, how 
much their employer controls them, who those bill pay-
ments are going to, how their commlink knows what 
groceries they need this week, and who knows where 
they live. Yes, Joe Wageslave is pretty oblivious to the 
system that surrounds everything they do. But anyone 
who chooses to live off the grid (like shadowrunners) 
are all too aware of how the system of identity works.
SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION 
NUMBER (SIN)
The foundation of an identity in the Sixth World is the 
System Identification Number (SIN). If someone wanted 
to divide the world into two groups of people, it could 
be done by saying there are those who have a SIN and 
those who don’t. That is, if you even consider the SIN-
less to be “people,” which some don’t. Modern society 
in 2075 produces a staggering amount of information 
every second of every day: where you are, what you 
buy, and what you do. With the system producing all of 
these pieces of information, there needs to be an easy 
way to store, track, and correlate it. All of that informa-
tion needs to be associated with a person somehow. 
That’s where the SIN comes in. A SIN is issued to a per-
son a birth, and stays with them (baring exceptional cir-
cumstances) for the rest of their life. A SIN identifies a 
CYBERWARE SCANNER TABLE
ITEM
THRESHOLD
Standard cyberware, weapons
1
Alphaware, other items
2
Betaware
3
Deltaware
5+
SITUATION
MODIFIER
2 or more implants/items
+1
4 or more implants/items
+2
6+ implants/items
+3
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
366    Identification >>
