have a SIN only if they have the SINner quality (p. 84). 
Most runners don’t have one, either because they were 
unfortunate enough to be born poor, or because they 
lost it or ditched it somewhere along the way. SINs are 
digital, not physical objects. They exist on your com-
mlink, or in your PAN. 
Getting by without a SIN can be a pain, so most run-
ners settle for the next best thing: a fake. High quality 
fakes are difficult for The Man to spot; low quality fakes 
are … less good. The rating of the fake SIN is used in tests 
against verification systems (Fake SINs, p. 367) .
Just like a real SIN, anytime you use a fake SIN for le-
gitimate activity, you leave a datatrail in your wake. The 
fact that criminal activities can be tracked to fake SINs 
makes fake SINs inherently disposable. Most runners 
operate two or more fake SINs at a time, one for legal 
activity like paying rent and going shopping, another 
for shadier activity, and possibly a third to be used only 
when it’s time to get the hell outta Dodge.
Fake license: For those who can’t or won’t go through 
the standard legal channels, fake licenses are available for 
all kinds of restricted items and activities. Items with no 
letter next to their availability don’t require licenses. Items 
that are Forbidden have no license available. Licenses, 
therefore, are for Restricted items. Each type of item/ac-
tivity permission requires a separate license. Things that 
require licenses include hunting (bow and rifle), posses-
sion of a firearm, concealed carry of a firearm (separate 
license), spellcasting, and any Restricted gear or augmen-
tations, etc. Just as SINs essentially exist on your com-
mlink, fake licenses exist on your SIN and are linked to it. 
When you buy a fake concealed-carry license, you don’t 
buy it for Murderman the professional shadowrunner, 
you buy it for John Doe, one of Murderman’s fake SINs. 
Each license must be assigned to a particular (fake) SIN of 
the player’s choosing. Use the fake license’s rating against 
verification systems (Fake SIN, p. 367). 
TOOLS
Building and repairing items requires the right tools for 
the job. Tools must be bought separately for a specific 
skill (for example, an Ar-
morer shop, a Disguise kit, 
a Nautical Mechanic facil-
ity, etc.). A kit is portable 
and contains the basic gear 
to make standard repairs. 
A shop is transportable in 
the back of a van and con-
tains more advanced tools 
for building and repairing. 
A facility needs a building 
and is immobile because of the bulky and heavy ma-
chines involved, but it can be used for very advanced 
constructions and modifications. Shops and facilities are 
both stocked with standard spare parts.
There are some guidelines to help you figure out 
when a kit, shop, or facility is necessary for a particular 
job (Building & Repairing, p. 145). The gamemaster gets 
final say, though, and might even tell you that you need 
specific or unusual parts you have to get separately.
OPTICAL AND 
IMAGING DEVICES
From wiz shades to bulky goggles, basic vision enhancers 
are available in several forms. All such devices have—and 
by default use—wireless capability, although you can use 
a universal data cable for most of them. Each device has 
a Capacity that allows you to add vision enhancements. 
Some of these devices are worn, while others are external 
sensor devices or even attached to weapons.
Binoculars: Typically handheld, binoculars come 
with built-in vision magnification. Binoculars are avail-
able in optical (which can’t take additional vision en-
hancements) and electronic versions (which can take 
vision enhancements).
Camera: A common visual device, cameras can 
capture still photos, video, and trideo, including sound. 
Cameras may also be upgraded with vision enhance-
ments and audio enhancements. A micro version is 
available with a Capacity 1.
Contacts: The most recent display devices are worn 
directly on the eyes. They are nearly undetectable, but 
they offer a bit of space for enhancements. Contacts 
have to be wireless; they don’t have room for a universal 
data connector.
Glasses: Glasses are lenses contained in light-
weight frames worn on the bridge of the nose; numer-
ous cosmetic styles are available, and vision-enhance-
ment-equipped glasses are hard to distinguish from 
prescription glasses or sunglasses at a glance.
Goggles: Relatively large and bulky, goggles are 
strapped to the head, making them difficult to dislodge. 
>> STREET GEAR <<
CREDSTICKS
TYPE
MAX VALUE
AVAIL
COST
Standard
5,000¥
—
5¥
Silver
20,000¥
—
20¥
Gold
100,000¥
5
100¥
Platinum
500,000¥
10
500¥
Ebony
1,000,000¥
20
1,000¥
IDENTIFICATION
TYPE
AVAIL
COST
Fake SIN (Rating 1-6)
(Rating x 3)F
Rating x 2,500¥
Fake license (Rating 1-6)
(Rating x 3)F
Rating x 200¥
TOOLS
TYPE
AVAIL
COST
Kit
—
500¥
Shop
8
5,000¥
Facility
12
50,000¥
<< Electronics    443
