rent. An appropriate shopsoft—one exists for each type 
of product like electronics, firearms, melee weapons, ar-
mor, et cetera—provides a +1 bonus to your Social limit 
for all Availability and Negotiation tests you make to buy 
and sell those items.
Tutorsofts: These virtual private tutors aid you in 
learning a specific skill. The tutorsoft makes Instruction 
Tests with a dice pool equal to its Rating x 2. Tutorsofts 
cannot teach skills based on Magic or Resonance.
SKILLSOFTS
A skillsoft program is a recorded skill—digital knowl-
edge and muscle memory. When used in conjunction 
with the proper augmentations (a skilljack for know-
softs and linguasofts, and a skillwire system for active-
softs) skillsofts let you know and do things you’ve nev-
er otherwise learned. Even kung fu.
Skillsofts aren’t educational tools; you can’t actually 
learn from them. They’re highly favored by corporations 
interested in a cheaper labor force (when the difference 
between a skilled and unskilled worker can be as simple 
as slotting a chip, the difference in salary is smaller).
When a skill test is called for, the character may use 
the skillsoft rating in place of the skill. Downside: tests 
made with a skillsoft may not be boosted with Edge in 
any way.
Activesofts: Activesofts replace physical active 
skills, basically every Active skill that isn’t based on Mag-
ic or Resonance. A skillwire system (p. 455) is needed to 
translate the ‘softs into usable muscle memory. There’s 
a limit to the number of skills you can use at once, based 
on your skillwire’s rating.
Knowsofts: Knowsofts replicate Knowledge skills, 
actively overwriting the user’s knowledge with their own 
data. Knowsofts must be accessed with a skilljack, and 
the number you can use at once is limited by the skilljack.
Linguasofts: Linguasofts replicate language skills, 
allowing a user to speak a foreign language by auto-
matically translating signals from the speech cortex, 
although chipped speech can be awkward and stilted—
then again, so can anyone speaking a language that’s 
not their native tongue. Linguasofts must be accessed 
with a skilljack, which limits how many skillsofts you can 
use at a time.
ID AND CREDIT
IDs and credsticks are discussed in more detail under 
Identification, p. 366.
Certified credstick: Cash for the late 21st century. A 
certified credstick is not registered to any specific person—
the electronic funds encoded on it belong to the holder, re-
quiring no special ID or authorization to use. The bad news 
is that you can be physically mugged, any money you have 
on your credstick jacked and rolled. The good news is that 
certified credsticks are completely untraceable. They’re not 
even wireless—you have to slot them into a universal data 
connector to transfer cash onto or off of them. This makes 
them enduringly popular with shadowrunners and the Mr. 
Johnsons who love to hire them.
Each type of credstick can only hold up to a certain 
amount of money, listed on the table. This is the maxi-
mum amount it can carry, not the amount it always has 
on it—so don’t get excited when you see a gold cred-
stick until you’ve slotted it and checked its balance.
Credit account: A credit account is an online bank-
ing account that can be accessed at any time via your 
commlink. Transactions require passcode or biometric 
verification to be authorized. The good news is no one 
can (physically) steal your bank account, and hacking 
credit accounts often requires a run to Zurich Orbital or 
something equally suicidal. The bad news is that digi-
tal transactions leave a “paper trail” that, while it can be 
hidden or concealed, is entirely too traceable for seri-
ous criminal activities. Each account must be registered 
to a particular (usually fake) SIN, unless the account is 
handled by an anonymous underworld banking service 
(with its own risks and complications). The cost of bank-
ing services is included in your lifestyle costs if you’ve 
got a Low Lifestyle or better—otherwise you’ll need to 
keep all your money on credsticks.
Fake system identification number (SIN): In 2075, 
you’re just a number. A SIN (or its international equiv-
alents) is what makes a mere metahuman into a real 
person. Solid citizens receive their SINs at birth and car-
ry them until they die. Not having a SIN means living 
outside the system, living with restricted or non-existent 
civil rights. Shadowrunners by default are SINless—they 
>> STREET GEAR <<
SOFTWARE
PROGRAM/SOFTWARE
AVAIL
COST
Agent (Rating 1–3)
Rating x 3
Rating x 1,000¥
Agent (Rating 4–6)
Rating x 3
Rating x 2,000¥
Autosoft
Rating x 2
Rating x 500¥
Cyberprogram, common use
—
80¥
Cyberprogram, hacking
6R
250¥
Datasoft
4
120¥
Mapsoft
4
100¥
Shopsoft
4
150¥
Tutorsoft (Rating 1–6)
Rating
Rating x 400¥
SKILLSOFTS
SKILLSOFT
AVAIL
COST
Activesofts (Rating 1–6)
8
Rating x 5,000¥
Knowsofts (Rating 1–6)
4
Rating x 2,000¥
Linguasofts (Rating 1–6)
2
Rating x 1,000¥
442    Electronics >>
