times are slow and unreliable. As a result, all Matrix 
actions are performed at a –2 dice pool penalty when 
you’re using the public grid, even in a host.
LOCAL GRIDS
Local grids are available within a specifically defined 
physical area, such as a sprawl or county. You can only 
access a local grid if you’re accessing it from the ser-
vice area, usually the geographic area with which it is 
associated. For example, the Emerald City local grid is 
only accessible as long as you’re in Seattle. Outside the 
sprawl, the Salish-Shidhe ChinookNet becomes the local 
grid. You can still access things on the Emerald City grid, 
but you’re now working across grids. Each local grid is 
usually provided by a AAA or AA megacorp, though the 
advertising is a bit more muted than you’d find on the 
more commercial global grids.
GLOBAL GRIDS
There are ten publicly known global grids, one for each 
of the Big Ten megacorporations. As you’d guess by 
the name, global grids are accessible all over the world, 
even in orbit out to as far as two thousand kilometers 
from the surface of the Earth. These grids are full of ad-
vertising and marketing. Each has its own demiGOD, 
and those groups share security information and Over-
watch Score data freely. The megas don’t agree on 
much, but they all hate hackers.
DEVICES AND PERSONAS
Devices and personas are the movers and shakers 
in the Matrix. They’re the only icons that actually do 
things (except hosts, which do things internally, but 
let’s stay focused). The difference between the two is 
that devices usually do things in the real world, while 
personas do their thing in the Matrix.
DEVICES
A device in the Matrix is any wireless device in the real 
world. Toasters, power tools, vehicles, firearms, fire 
hydrants, street lights, ear phones, sales and invento-
ry tags, doors and locks, commlinks, pet collars, office 
equipment, snow blowers, thermostats, drones ... if it’s 
big enough for a microchip, it’s big enough to house 
enough computing power to be a device. And if it’s a 
device, it’s in the Matrix.
Devices have a smaller-than-person-sized icon in 
the Matrix. They also have three ratings: a Device Rating 
and two of the Matrix attributes, Data Processing and 
Firewall. For most devices, the Matrix attributes are the 
same as the Device Rating.
When is a device not a device? When it’s a persona!
DEVICE RATINGS
DEVICE TYPE
DEVICE
RATING
EXAMPLES
Simple
1
General appliances, public terminals, entertainment systems
Average
2
Standard personal electronics, basic cyberware, vehicles, drones, 
weapons, residential security devices
Smart
3
Security vehicles, alphaware, corporate security devices
Advanced
4
High-end devices, betaware, military vehicles and security devices
Cutting Edge
5
Deltaware, credsticks, black-ops vehicles and security devices
Bleeding Edge
6
Billion-nuyen experimental devices, space craft
MATRIX SPOTTING TABLE
TARGET IS...
AND IS...
NOT RUNNING SILENT
RUNNING SILENT
Within 100 meters
Automatic
Opposed Computer + Intuition  
[Data Processing] v. Logic + Sleaze Test
Outside 100 meters
Simple Computer + Intuition 
[Data Processing]
A host
automatic
>> THE MATRIX <<
234    Cracking the MATRIX SPINE >>
