One of the most daunting tasks for a new player is to 
face the admittedly large array of equipment options 
that exist in Shadowrun. There are guns for every oc-
casion, no less than four different knives, lifestyles, 
vehicles, fake SINs … it can all be overwhelming. Even 
seasoned players find themselves groaning over a 
calculator, trying to squeeze every last available nuy-
en. In an effort to make this process easier, we have 
pre-assembled character kits (PACKs) that allow you to 
quickly and easily make new characters by offering a 
collection of gear with pre-calculated nuyen and Kar-
ma costs. The collections presented here meet specific 
themes, as listed in the title, to help you quickly and 
easily build your vision for a character. The nuyen and 
Karma costs are listed with the title; in all cases the nuy-
en is evenly divisible by 2,000, so each PACK can be 
wholly purchased with the specified amount of Karma 
at character creation if desired. PACKs frequently note 
Availability for ease of reference.
EQUIPMENT PACKS
Gathering up equipment is vital for every shadowrun-
ner. People have their special gear needs—a street sa-
murai needs some augmentations, a weapon expert 
needs a good selection of guns, and a decker needs 
a cyberdeck—but there are also selections of gear that 
can be useful to just about anyone. Below is a mix of 
kits—some that are specialized, some that might be 
useful to anyone.
CORE PACKS
Core PACKs include the most essential gear for every 
shadowrunner, starting with a fake SIN and commlink, 
then making certain that you have armor, light in the 
darkness, and a certified credstick to offer you some 
flexibility in how you pay for stuff. Other PACKs might 
be a little esoteric, but they’re still not specialized. Ev-
eryone can use a core PACK.
INTRO RUNNER PACK
(4,000¥/2 KARMA)
Suitable for rookie runners and people who’ve turned 
their backs on society at large, the Intro Runner PACK 
revolves around a barely functional fake SIN, one that 
is fine for ordering pizza or getting into a cheap dive 
but will crumble under any real scrutiny. A simple “Wel-
come to Seattle” package of software and respirator 
will get you where you need to be, if not in style. Fine 
for street scum and rat shamans, though professionals 
tend to go more upscale.
BASIC RUNNER PACK 
(10,000¥/5 KARMA)
Considered the benchmark for a professional shad-
owrunner, the Basic Runner PACK revolves around a 
much better fake SIN, a more impressive commlink, 
and enough elements to operate with both a shad-
owrunning team and day-to-day society. In addition 
to the Seattle tourist bundle, now with audio cues and 
a soft-speaking tour guide at every AR feed, it comes 
with a secure radio for team communication and an 
emergency first-aid kit, all the better to keep the group 
in one piece.
INTRO RUNNER PACK
ITEMS
Fake SIN (1)
Mapsoft (campaign city)
Meta Link commlink
Standard credstick
Colt America L36 light 
pistol with two spare clips
Twenty plastic restraints
100 rounds of standard 
light pistol ammo
Flashlight
Knife
Backpack (20¥)
Armor vest
Respirator (1)
Glasses (1) with image link
RUN FASTER
PACK YOUR KIT
228    PACK YOUR KIT >>
