ADEPT POWERS
Spellslingers are not the only way to get magic in on 
your extraction efforts. Adepts have a few useful tools 
and powers at their disposal as well. Like the following. 
 
COMMANDING VOICE
With this power, an adept can give a target a five-word 
command. With magical energies empowering their 
words, an adept with this ability can compel a target 
to do almost anything, including dropping a weapon, 
walking out of a building, getting into a car, or remain-
ing silent while another team member renders the 
target unconscious. Adepts have said that this ability 
can only be used on a single target a limited number 
of times within a twenty-four hour period or else they 
grow resistant to it, but all it takes is one action the ad-
ept stops or alters to make a difference in a run. This 
power, if used properly, can minimize opportunities for 
things to go wrong and minimize any violence that may 
be required to grab the target.
LIGHT TOUCH
Adepts in the extraction business often find they re-
quire the palming skill, either to lift items from a tar-
get for access reasons (e.g., commlinks or key cards) 
or subtly dose them with a contact drug. Light Touch 
allows the adept to make the attempt, but to do so with 
such a graceful motion that it becomes extraordinarily 
difficult for most metahumans to perceive that some-
one has made contact with them until it is too late. This 
adept power is often used in conjunction with the Nim-
ble Fingers adept power (see below).    
MIMIC
To get to a target for extraction, many teams have to rely 
on breaking-and-entering tools to bypass security mea-
sures to get them in. These tools often include cellular 
glove molders and cybereyes with the retinal duplication 
modification. Adepts with this power can mimic the func-
tions of those technical devices. An adept with this pow-
er needs to touch the subject that will be providing the 
print patterns; they can then use their magic to shift their 
retinal patterns, fingerprints, and palm prints into copies 
of the subject’s prints. They need to maintain contact a 
decent amount of uninterrupted contact with the target; 
the longer the contact, the better quality their copies will 
be. The adept then has a limited amount of time to gain 
access to the area where the subject is and extract them 
before their print patterns revert to their natural state. 
This power saves runners the need to spend time making 
a fake print with a glove, and gives runner teams the op-
tion of choosing different print patterns for access. This 
comes in handy if an alarm is sounded and the print they 
have been using becomes disabled.
NERVE STRIKE
Extraction teams normally bring about paralysis in a 
target by drugging them. Adepts can do the same thing 
by knowing precisely where to hit the target and ap-
plying precisely the right amount of force to key nerve 
clusters. The advantage of relying on adepts with the 
Nerve Strike power is that you do not have to worry 
about transporting or smuggling illicit drugs on your 
person to dose a target with. An adept’s fists will serve 
the same purpose, and no one will be the wiser until 
the actual extraction attempt goes down. 
NIMBLE FINGERS
The Nimble Fingers adept power improves the dex-
terity of the adept’s digits, allowing them to perform 
astounding sleight-of-hand feats without being no-
ticed. In conjunction with Light Touch, Nimble Fingers 
can make the adept a perfect weapon in an extraction 
team’s arsenal—or turn them into a frightening assassin 
if the job calls for it.
EXTRACTION DEVICES
DEVICE
AVAILABILITY
COST
Houdini Machine I (commlink and biomonitor) (does not include cost of drugs)
12F
8,500¥
Houdini Machine II (medkit computer) (does not include cost of drugs)
12F
12,000¥
Ambulance gurney
8
2,000¥
Body bag
6
50¥
Fake DocWagon wrist band
10F
100¥
Stimtouch hosiery
6R
250¥
Laced lipstick
10F
Special
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT    185
