

===== killcode.pdf PDF page 67 =====
ENHANCED AUGMENTED 
REALITY REFLEX SYSTEM
Can you hear me? Maybe you need a nice set 
of EARRS?! I’m so funny. The EARRS system is 
a unique blend of meat and Matrix, designed 
to allow faster Matrix activity without the need 
to fully immerse yourself in the virtual realm. 
Functioning as a bridge between your central 
nervous system and the Augmented Reality 
Matrix around you, EARRS allow you to process 
Matrix input at Matrix speeds while also letting 
you respond to it via physical actions combined 
with DNI and without the total nervous over-
ride of full ASIST. 
These were field-tested by several special-op-
erations groups, and most came back with rave re-
views. They saw their operator’s ability to interact 
with both worlds at once, a far greater option than 
being restricted to slow AR interaction or slump-
ing and being hauled by the team while they went 
full-VR to deal with electronic hazards.
>	
Can’t say I know anyone with a system like this, but it 
can’t be easy to operate between the two realms. Even 
operating in an intense spam-zone can make the real 
world impossible to interact with—I can’t imagine a 
system that tries to merge the two worlds.
>	
Balladeer
CRANIAL SHIELD
I’m only including this as a favor to a friend who 
wants people to know they exist. No one in their 
right mind would ever intentionally get one in-
stalled. The system is a series of emitters im-
planted into the skull. The emitters throw off a 
low-level interference signal that inhibits wire-
less connections between devices in the crani-
um and outside. A bypass, like a datajack, can be 
used for access, but all wireless connections fail. 
The system was supposedly designed to protect 
couriers from getting their headware hacked, but 
the existence of datalocks and the ability to shut 
down wireless capability made plenty of skeptics. 
Digging around for the original design traced the 
whole thing back to MCT, and some additional 
specs showed that the system also blocks tech-
nomancers from accessing the Matrix. So now 
we know why they made it. 
>	
There is no reason for this to exist. This is some of the 
most deplorable tech I have seen since cortex bombs. 
There are no good uses for this!
>	
Netcat
>	
I’ll probably catch flak for this, but here goes. The 
market for this implant is parents of technomancer 
kids. I’m not a proponent of this by any means, but it’s 
hard being a teenager and a technomancer. Or even 
being an adult and a technomancer. This implant is 
marketed as a way to shut off the overwhelming stream 
of signals constantly battering a young technomancer. 
It’s marketing, I know, and there are so many ways to 
protect them without cutting off access to a natural 
talent, but a lot of parents aren’t technomancers 
themselves and don’t understand. They just see it as 
something that is hurting their child, and they look to 
this as a permanent solution.
>	
/dev/grrl
>	
Those parents don’t deserve those kids.
>	
Netcat
>	
Here’s a growing business for you: hacking clinics that 
offer this “treatment” and then snatching kids before 
surgery. The jobs vary in pay depending on the delivery 
target for the kid. Delivering kids to a hooder looking to 
help a young techno brings in low pay, while selling them 
to a corp or (sorry, Orange Queen) a dragon pays better. 
Looking into who you’re working for is a good idea here, 
and before you go thinking about welching on the deal 
in order to keep a young technomancer out of the corp’s 
hands, remember they’re a person and will need to be 
taken care of. Not to mention the fact that most of them 
are already convinced by mom and dad that this is the 
best solution to help them with their condition.
>	
Fianchetto
>> KILL CODE <<
EARRS RULES
The EARRS implant allows users to roll their Matrix 
Initiative in a Physical encounter but limits the actions that 
can be performed. While running the EARRS implant, the user 
can move normally and perceive events in the physical world 
through their standard senses, but all Physical and Social 
Skill actions face a –10 dice pool modifier due to the system’s 
confusion of physical and Matrix input. Matrix Actions can be 
performed as normal. 
ESS
AVAIL
COST
0.75
10R
30,000¥
66    DIPS & CHIPS >>


===== killcode.pdf PDF page 74 =====
in Cincinnati, Ohio, UCAS. From what I’ve heard, they do 
solid if not spectacular work. 
>	
Red Anya
>	
Nice piece of gear, but is it really a good idea for any 
decker—or rigger, for that matter—to go full VR in the 
middle of a firefight? No thanks, not for me. 
>	
Pistons 
SPINRAD GLOBAL/ 
PANTHEON INDUSTRIES 
MERCURY-ALPHA BATTLEFIELD 
SIGNAL BOOSTER 
On the wireless battlefields of the Sixth World, 
electronic warfare has greater significance than 
ever before. Cutting off or limiting an enemy’s 
ability to communicate while maintaining one’s 
own is often a decisive factor in victory. The Mer-
cury-Alpha Signal Booster is designed to give PI-
Tac users/operators and their commanders addi-
tional advantages during combat or for normal 
use in remote areas. 
The Mercury-Alpha consists of three compo-
nents: a main unit (or brain) that contains all neces-
sary hardware, software, batteries, and data ports; 
a foldable/detachable micro-dish transmitter; and 
an optional, hardened fiber-optic cable that can 
directly link the brain and transmitter together. 
The brain weighs only about 450g and comes in 
a variety of shapes, depending on the user’s pref-
erence. It attaches directly to a PI-Tac master unit, 
commlink, cyberdeck, or RCC. 
When in use, the Mercury-Alpha has three dis-
tinct modes. The first is passive mode, which is 
specifically designed to overcome most normal 
obstacles, such as extreme distance or natural ob-
OPTIONAL RULE: SURPLUS OR REFURBISHED PI-TAC UNITS
Arguably one of the most useful (and expensive) pieces of 
battlefield technology out there, PI-Tac’s are coveted pieces of 
equipment. Since their introduction years ago, the market for 
surplus or refurbished units is at an all-time high. But, like any 
secondhand piece of equipment, getting these types of units comes 
with a price. If a gamemaster wishes to allow their players access 
to them, here are a few general rules/suggestions:
1) For every 25 percent reduction on the base cost of a new 
unit, the surplus unit should have lost the functionality of one of its 
main features. Repairing each function requires both Hardware 
and Software + Logic [Mental] (Level x 3) Extended Tests, and the 
necessary replacement parts cost two percent of the original value 
value of the PI-Tax at +4 Availability)
2) Surplus and refurbished units are more prone to breakdown 
and susceptible to glitches. If an operator should glitch while 
using one of these units, one main feature will fail and will need 
to be repaired through a Hardware or Software + Logic [Mental] 
(Level) Test. Gamemasters can also elect to have different kinds of 
hidden code or commands in the unit. These can cause the unit to 
act in unpredictable ways such as broadcasting all information in 
the open or going into diagnostic mode at inconvenient times. Get 
creative with the ways the players are inconvenienced! 
3) Such units are more susceptible to both physical and Matrix 
damage and will take one additional box when receiving either type 
of damage. 
>> KILL CODE <<
PANTHEON HARD CASE CCOB
ARMOR
CAPACITY
AVAIL
COST
12/14*
8
12R
1,700¥
Rules: Provides protection for contents against physical 
damage only. Does not stack with other armor.
Standard Upgrades: Drag handle, internal armored shell 
(for RCC or cyberdecks) [14]*, 3 micro-hardpoints, quick-charge 
battery pack.
GENERIC CCOB
ARMOR
CAPACITY
AVAIL
COST
8
8
10
1,000¥
Rules: Does not stack with other armor
Standard Upgrades: Drag handle, micro-hardpoint, weapon 
holster (SMG, shotgun, or assault rifle), quick-access medkit 
pouch (up to Rating 4).
PERSONAL DRONE RACK
AVAIL
COST
12R
500¥
Rules: Can mount 3 micro drones or one small drone. 
Requires one micro-hardpoint. 
<< DIPS & CHIPS    73


===== killcode.pdf PDF page 83 =====
PARALLEL  
PROCESSING
Respec stared up at the ceiling in thought, reclining 
in the rear of Netcat’s Econovan. Their transport for 
tonight’s run was an inconspicuous panel van loaded 
with medkits, tools, hidden guns, emergency com-
mlinks, and most importantly, the object Respec was 
lounging on while Netcat drove. It was a surprising-
ly comfortable sofa for extra passengers, willing or 
otherwise—definitely a step up from the hard-plastic 
ambulance seats found in most shadowrunner trans-
ports. And way more comfortable to lay down on.
For a moment, the absurdity of her situation struck 
Respec. Netcat had far more experience than her, 
so it seemed natural to let her take the lead. Except 
for the fact that Respec was at least fifty years older 
than the other technomancer. The first-generation elf 
pinched the bridge of her nose, realizing this was a 
problem that an astronomically low number of peo-
ple could ever relate to. It was her burden to bear.
She climbed out of the van’s rear, having upload-
ed the mission parameters, required passcodes, and 
other data from the prep stage to a nanomemory 
tattoo between her toes. Nobody but weirdos both-
er to look there. Netcat was next out. Both of them 
wore dark armored clothing that might be passable 
as something a nightshift security agent might wear, 
though with no colors or logos specific to their target. 
On Respec’s hip rested a completely average-look-
ing commlink. Specifically, the kind security guards 
at the Makoto Shiranui Memorial Hospital, Brought 
To You By Mitsuhama Computer Technologies were 
issued. The pair checked each other’s disguises be-
fore walking in opposite directions toward separate 
hospital entrances, outerwear for the chilly February 
night concealing weapons and other contraband. In 
a private link, they reviewed their plan.
<According to Mr. Johnson’s information, this hos-
pital, as you’d expect from a MCT operation, isn’t just 
a hospital. They never stopped their technomancer 
research—they just hid it better. This is where they … 
Ugh. It’s disgusting how clinical this report is.>
<Just finish it, Respec.>
Respec winced in meatspace, doing her best to 
focus back on the Matrix and ignore the chill of the 
night blowing through her trenchcoat. 
<It’s a real hospital, but beneath it is an unlist-
ed facility. This is where they process suspected 
82    >> PARALLEL PROCESSING <<
BY AMY VEERES
