

===== PDF page 454 =====
Flashlight: By 2075, most flashlights are long last-
ing and super bright. Durability and brightness depend 
on the size—the bulkier, the better. Flashlights are also 
available in low-light and infrared versions, reducing 
visibility modifiers for low-light and thermographic vi-
sion, respectively. A flashlight can also be mounted to 
a weapon’s top or under-barrel mount (Mounts, p. 417).
Gas mask: This air-supplied re-breather complete-
ly covers your face and gives you immunity to inhala-
tion-vector toxin attacks (Toxins, Drugs, and BTLs, p. 
408). It comes with a one-hour clean-air supply (replace-
ments cost 40 nuyen) and can be attached to larger air 
tanks. It cannot be combined with a regular respirator.
Wireless: The gas mask analyzes and gives you informa-
tion about the surrounding air that you’re not breathing.
Gecko tape gloves: The outer layer of these gloves is 
made of a special dry adhesive that incorporates millions 
of fine microscopic hairs that bond to other surfaces. In-
dividually, these bonding forces are tiny, but combined 
they’re strong enough to attach a troll, upside down, to 
the ceiling. Gecko tape gloves come as a set that includes 
gloves, kneepads, and slip-on-soles. You get to use as-
sisted climbing (p. 134) when you’re wearing the set. 
Gecko tape gloves are useless when they’re wet.
Wireless: The adhesive outer layer can be temporarily 
neutralized with a wireless signal, useful for getting the 
gloves on and off without getting them stuck to yourself 
or each other.
Hazmat suit: The hazmat suit covers your whole 
body and includes an internal air tank with four hours 
of air. As long as it’s not damaged, it provides you with 
a chemical seal (p. 437) and protects you from contact 
and inhalation vector toxin attacks (Toxins, Drugs, and 
BTLs, p. 408). Many hazmat suits come standard with a 
Geiger counter (Sensors, p. 445).
Wireless: The suit analyzes and transmits informa-
tion about the environment that you’re not touching or 
breathing.
Light stick: Bend, snap, and shake it to produce three 
hours of soft chemical illumination that covers a ten-me-
ter radius.
Magnesium torch: Strike and activate for five min-
utes of bright torchlight.
Micro flare launcher: The flare launcher can shoot 
colored flares about 200 meters into the air, illuminating 
an area the size of a city block for a couple of minutes 
and negating the modifier for poor or low lighting. If you 
shoot it at someone, use the Exotic Ranged Weapon 
skill; the micro flare deals 5P Fire damage.
Rappelling gloves: These gloves are made of a spe-
cial fabric that allows you to get a tighter grip on a grap-
ple line, giving you a +2 dice pool bonus on all tests to 
hold your grip on the line. These gloves are necessary 
in order to use ultrathin microwire without gruesomely 
slicing your hands apart as you slide down it.
Respirator: A respirator is a filter-mask worn over the 
mouth and nose that protects against inhalation-vector 
toxins (Toxins, Drugs, and BTLs, p. 408). The respirator 
adds its rating to toxin resistance tests against inhala-
tion-vector toxins.
Survival kit: An assortment of survival gear in a rug-
ged bag. Includes a knife, lighter, matches, compass, 
lightweight thermal blanket, several days’ worth of ra-
tion bars, a water-purification unit, and more. A good 
item to consider for your go-bag.
GRAPPLE GUN
This gun can shoot a grappling hook and attached 
rope, using Light Crossbow ranges. It comes equipped 
with an internal winch to pull back the grapple (or pull 
up small loads). Use the Exotic Ranged Weapon skill 
to shoot it. Micro rope can support a weight of up to 
100 kilograms; standard and stealth ropes can support 
a weight of up to 400 kilograms.
Microwire: This micro rope is made of an extreme-
ly thin (nearly monofilament) and resilient fiber; a great 
length of it can be stored in a very small compartment, 
and it is very difficult to see. The downside is that it 
can only be grabbed with special protective rappelling 
gloves without slicing straight through the climber’s 
hands, inflicting 8P damage with an AP of –8.
Myomeric rope: Made of a special myomeric fiber, 
this rope’s movement can be controlled remotely (over 
a maximum length of thirty meters). For example, the 
controller can wind it like a snake to reach around an ob-
stacle or tie to a ledge. The rope moves at a rate of two 
meters per Combat Turn.
Stealth rope & catalyst stick: When stealth rope is 
touched with the catalyst stick, the chemical reaction that 
is triggered crumbles the rope to dust within seconds, 
leaving almost no trace. The catalyst stick is reusable.
>> STREET GEAR <<
SURVIVAL GEAR
GEAR
AVAIL
COST
Chemsuit (Rating 1-6)
Rating x 2
Rating x 150¥
Climbing gear
—
200¥
Diving gear
6
2,000¥
Flashlight
—
25¥
Gas mask
—
200¥
Gecko tape gloves
12
250¥
Hazmat suit
8
3,000¥
Light stick
—
25¥
Magnesium torch
—
5¥
Micro flare launcher
—
175¥
Micro flares
—
25¥
Rappelling gloves
—
50¥
Respirator (Rating 1-6)
—
Rating x 50¥
Survival Kit
4
200¥
<< Electronics    449


===== PDF page 455 =====
BIOTECH
Healing rules are on p. 205.
Biomonitor: This compact device measures life 
signs—heart rate, blood pressure, temperature, and so 
on. The biomonitor can also analyze blood, sweat, and 
skin samples. Used by medical services and patients 
who need to monitor their own health, biomonitors can 
be worn as an armband or wristband or integrated into 
clothing or commlinks.
Wireless: The biomonitor shares information with oth-
er wireless devices you designate and can auto-alert 
DocWagon or another ambulance service if your life 
signs reach certain thresholds.
Disposable syringe: Made of plastic with a metal 
needle, syringes are intended for a single use. Syring-
es can be used to apply injection-vector toxins. An un-
cooperative victim might need to be immobilized or at 
least grappled first.
Medkit: The medkit includes drug supplies, bandages, 
tools, and a (talkative) doctor expert system that can ad-
vise the user on techniques to handle most typical medical 
emergencies (including fractures, gunshot wounds, chem-
ical wounds, and poisoning, as well as offering advice for 
the treating of shock, handling blood loss, and of course 
performing resuscitations). Add the medkit’s rating to your 
limit on First Aid tests. A medkit of Rating 3 or lower fits 
in a pocket; at Rating 4+ it’s a handheld case. The medkit 
needs to be restocked after every (Rating) uses.
Wireless: The Medkit provides a dice pool bonus 
equal to its rating to First Aid + Logic tests, or can oper-
ate itself with a dice pool of Medkit Rating x 2 and a limit 
equal to its Rating.
DOCWAGON CONTRACT
Don’t leave home without it! DocWagon offers first-
class emergency medical care on a twenty-four-hour 
basis, and they come to you! Four contract service lev-
els are available: basic, gold, platinum, and super-plat-
inum. A DocWagon contract requires the filing of tis-
sue samples (held in a secure vault staffed by bonded 
guards, spiders, and mages) and comes with a biomon-
itor RFID tag implant or wristband that can be activated 
to call for help and then to serve as a homing beacon 
for DocWagon armed ambulances and fast-response 
choppers in the area. Rupture of the band will also alert 
DocWagon representatives.
Upon receiving a call from a contract-holder, 
DocWagon franchises guarantee arrival of an armed 
trauma team in less than ten minutes, or else the emer-
gency medical care is free. Resuscitation service carries 
a high premium (5,000 nuyen), as does High Threat Re-
sponse (HTR) service (5,000 nuyen). In the latter case, 
the client or their next of kin is expected to pay med-
ical bills up to and including death compensation for 
DocWagon employees (20,000 nuyen per cold body).
Gold service includes one free resuscitation per year, 
a fifty percent reduction on HTR service charges, and a 
ten percent discount on extended care. Platinum service 
includes four free resuscitations per year and a fifty per-
cent discount on extended care. There is no charge for 
HTR services, but employee death compensation still 
applies. Super-platinum subscribers are entitled to five 
free resuscitations a year and do not have to pay for HTR 
services or death compensation.
Doc Wagon does not respond to calls on extrater-
ritorial government or corporate property without per-
mission from the controlling authority.
SLAP PATCHES
Slap patches are adhesive dermal drug dispensers 
that allow continual, safe administration of necessary 
BIOTECH
DEVICE
AVAIL
COST
Biomonitor
3
300¥
Disposable syringe
3
10¥
Medkit (Rating 1-6)
Rating
Rating x 250¥
     Medkit supplies
—
100¥
DOCWAGON CONTRACT
CONTRACT
AVAIL
COST
Basic
—
5,000¥ per year
Gold
—
25,000¥ per year
Platinum
—
50,000¥ per year
Super-platinum
—
100,000¥ per year
>> STREET GEAR <<
GRAPPLE GUN
GEAR
AVAIL
COST
Grapple gun
8R
500¥
Catalyst stick
8F
120¥
Microwire
4
50¥ per 100 m
Myomeric rope
10
200¥ per 10 m
Standard rope
—
50¥ per 100 m
Stealth rope
8F
85¥ per 100 m
EXOTIC
RANGED WEAPON ACC DAMAGE
AP
MODE
AMMO
Micro flare launcher
3
5P (Fire)
–5
SS
1 (ml)
Grapple gun
3
7S
–2
SS
1 (ml)
450    Electronics >>


===== PDF page 456 =====
chemicals. They are applied directly to the patient’s 
skin. Applying a slap patch to an unwilling patient re-
quires a successful melee attack (which deals no dam-
age), which may be tricky if your target doesn’t have 
much exposed skin (Called Shots, p. 195). 
Antidote patch: Add the rating of an antidote patch 
to any toxin resistance tests made within twenty minutes 
after it has been applied. The window to apply an anti-
dote patch after being poisoned is often very narrow, de-
pending on the toxin (Toxins, Drugs, and BTLs, p. 408).
Chem patch: This is a “blank” patch. You can add one 
dose of a chemical or toxin (p. 408) to it, and then apply 
it later to a patient (or yourself).
Stim patch: This patch removes a number of boxes 
of Stun damage equal to its Rating. This effect lasts for 
(Rating x 10) minutes—after that period of time, the pa-
tient takes (Rating + 1) unresisted Stun damage (which 
may be well become physical overflow by that point). 
While a stimulant patch is in effect, the character is 
unable to rest. Frequent use of stimulant patches may 
require Addiction Tests. Treat it as Addiction Rating 2, 
Addiction Threshold 1.
Tranq patch: This patch inflicts Stun damage equal to 
its rating, resisted with only Body.
Trauma patch: If placed on a dying patient, it allows 
her to make an immediate stabilization test (Physical 
Damage Overflow, p. 209) using her Body instead of 
First Aid or Medicine.
Wireless: Instead of making a test, the patient is auto-
matically stabilized immediately.
AUGMENTATION
Cyberware and bioware augmentations are every-
where in 2075. For the rich, the poor, and everyone in 
between, bodyshops on every street corner offer minor 
modifications at your convenience, legally and other-
wise. Even the gang-bangers on those street corners 
might be equipped with cybernetic vision, hearing en-
hancements, or datajacks.
Besides their wireless functionality, almost all cyber-
ware devices are equipped with a neural interface (not 
to be confused with DNI) that lets you mentally activate 
and control their functions. You can use this in place of 
wireless control, preventing wireless hacking, as long as 
all of the “moving parts” are connected to your nervous 
system. An item that has a wireless bonus, however, can 
only gain that full level of functionality if wireless func-
tionality is active. 
CYBERWARE AND 
BIOWARE GRADES
Cyberware and bioware implants are available in five dis-
tinct grades: standard, alphaware, betaware, deltaware, 
and used. Only standard, alphaware, and used implants 
are available for purchase at character creation. Please note 
that used is a unique grade and does not modify any of the 
other grades; there is no used alphaware, for example. The 
prices for cyberware and bioware presented in this chapter 
are for standard ‘ware. When purchasing implants of other 
grades, apply the Essence Cost, Cost, and Availability ad-
justments as noted on the Implant Grades table.
All accessories and add-ons must be of the same 
grade as the implant to which they are added.
CYBERSURGERY AND 
RECOVERY TIME
Getting cyberware and bioware installed hurts. When 
you have an augmentation implanted (after character cre-
ation), your Physical and Stun Condition Monitors each 
take a number of boxes of damage equal to the item’s 
Essence Cost x 3 (but never into overflow). Most cyber-
clinics and body shops offer recovery rooms for patients 
to rest and heal up after cybersurgery, but beware the 
sterility and cleanliness of the less-reputable chop shops.
HEADWARE
These small complex devices are inserted into the head 
and typically constructed via less-invasive nanosur-
gery. Items that have a Capacity Cost [in brackets] may 
be installed in cyberlimbs instead, costing Capacity 
rather than Essence.
Commlink: The implanted version of the commlink (p. 
438) comes with a sim module at no additional cost. An 
integral headware commlink is popular with corporate op-
SLAP PATCHES
PATCH
AVAIL
COST
Antidote patch (Rating 1-6)
Rating
Rating x 50¥
Chem patch
6
200¥
Stim patch (Rating 1-6)
Rating x 2
Rating x 25¥
Tranq patch (Rating 1-10)
Rating x 2
Rating x 20¥
Trauma patch
6
500¥
IMPLANT GRADES
GRADES
ESS COST 
MULTIPLIER
AVAIL 
MODIFIER
COST 
MULTIPLIER
Standard
x 1.0
—
x 1
Alphaware
x 0.8
+2
x 1.2
Betaware
x 0.7
+4
x 1.5
Deltaware
x 0.5
+8
x 2.5
Used
x 1.25
–4
x 0.75
>> STREET GEAR <<
<< Electronics    451


===== PDF page 457 =====
eratives, company men, and sararimen on the go. Gener-
ally speaking, commlinks with a Device Rating of less than 
5 are not installed inside your skull, for security reasons.
Control rig: This implant harnesses the raw data-co-
ordinating and synchronization power of the middle 
brain for the express purpose of directly manipulating 
rigged vehicles and drones (and other devices with rig-
ger interface, like turrets). It has a built-in sim module, so 
you can use it for DNI with other devices. It also comes 
with a universal data connector and about a meter of 
retractable cable (it’s like getting a free datajack). When 
you’re jumped into a vehicle or drone, the control rig 
provides its Rating as a dice pool bonus on all Vehicle 
skill tests. Additionally, the rating of your control rig is 
added to the Handling and Speed of any vehicle you are 
jumped into. As if that was not enough, your Vehicle Test 
thresholds are reduced by the rating of your control rig 
(to a minimum of 1), again when you’re jumped in.
Cortex bomb: An illegal method of coercion, cranial 
bombs come in three flavors: kink, microbomb, and area 
bomb. Kink bombs are designed to damage only part 
of the victim’s head, either rendering specific headware 
useless or damaging the brain to cause blindness, stut-
tering, hearing loss, or some other trauma. Of course, 
sometimes when something in your head explodes, things 
don’t go exactly as planned and the result is a bit … much. 
The microbomb version is just powerful enough to kill the 
unfortunate bearer. Area cranial bombs kill the victim, and 
they also affect a blast area exactly like a fragmentation 
grenade (p. 434). The bombs can be remote- or time-det-
onated, or even set to discharge by sound recognition. If 
installed in cyberlimbs, these bombs are designed to de-
stroy specific components (kink), the entire limb (regular), 
or blast the area and damage the bearer (microbomb).
Cyberdeck: Simply put, you’ve got a deck in your 
body. This is a very convenient for ther hacker on the go 
and is often sported by G-men and military deckers.
Datajack: A datajack gives you a direct neural inter-
face (p. 222), which can be handy in a lot of situations. 
It also comes with a retractable spool of micro-cable 
(about a meter long) that lets you directly interface 
with any electronic device via a universal access cable. 
Datajacks are equipped with their own cache of storage 
memory for downloading or saving files. Two datajack 
users can string a fiberoptic cable between themselves 
to conduct a private mental communication immune to 
radio interception or eavesdropping.
Wireless: The datajack gives you Rating 1 noise re-
duction.
Data Lock: This special datajack is popular with cou-
riers, spies, diplomatic aids, and executive liasions. Ef-
fectively, it turns the character in whom it is installed into 
a walking data safe. The data lock has a Device Rating 
equal to its own rating, and it protects the data from any-
one not authorized to access it (possibly including you). 
Data locks are not wireless enabled; they can only be 
accessed via universal data connector. In fact the bearer 
of the implant doesn’t have mental access to the data—
they’re only a carrier.
Olfactory Booster: This cybersnout enhances, identi-
fies, and records smells, and can play them back later. The 
massively enhanced olfactory capabilities of a sniffer open 
up a whole new world of sensory data to you—you’ll be 
able to sense things that ordinarily only a scent-hound 
would. You can smell people’s emotions in their sweat 
(and if applicable, the maker’s mark of their tailored pher-
omones), traces of ammunition propellant, explosives, or 
biological and chemical warfare compounds—the list goes 
on and on. A cut-off function allows you to completely ig-
nore intense odors, possibly the most convenient feature 
for use in your daily life. The olfactory booster can even be 
used in VR to create an even more immersive experience. 
Add the booster’s rating as a dice pool modifier to your 
scent-based Perception Tests.
Simrig: An implanted version of the simrig described 
on p. 439, this headware implant allows you to record sen-
sory data for later replay (or sale if you’re really interesting).
Skilljack: This headware interprets knowsofts and lin-
guasofts for your brain so you can use them as though they 
were your own. It can also run activesofts, but they only 
act as Knowledge Skills unless you have skillwires (p. 455). 
The total of all skills running on a skilljack cannot exceed its 
Rating x 2, and the maximum Rating for a skill is the skill-
jack’s Rating. Starting skills from storage and stopping skills 
is a Free Action. You can’t use Edge with skills you have 
through a skilljack. If you have more than one skilljack, only 
one of them can operate at a time.
Wireless: The extra boost from the Matrix increases the 
total Rating limit to the skilljack’s Rating x 3.
Taste Booster: The taste booster performs the same 
function as the olfactory booster, except that it enhances 
your taste buds. The taste booster also lets you experience 
gustatory data in AR and VR environments with a “taste 
track”—caveat emptor on that one, chummer. Apply the 
taste booster’s rating as a dice pool bonus to any Percep-
tion Test involving taste.
Tooth Compartment: The oldest cyberware on the 
market, these hollow teeth come in storage and breakable 
models. The storage model is used to smuggle really, really 
tiny contraband, the size of a datachip or a really small RFID 
tag. Items can be removed with a wireless signal or hidden 
catch. The breakable model triggers a linked effect (such as 
starting a tracking signal, or releasing deadly poison into 
your mouth—make sure you remember which is which!) 
with a wireless signal, or it may trigger when you bite down 
hard on the tooth.
Ultrasound Sensor: This cyberware is exactly like the 
ultrasound sensor. When active, it replaces your normal 
vision. It can be switched between active sonar, passive 
sonar, and off with a Free Action.
Voice Modulator: This implant gives you perfect 
pitch and enormous vocal flexibility and distortion ca-
pabilities. You can speak with an increased volume (up 
to 100 decibels) without strain, shift your pitch to make 
perfect bird calls or mellifluous singing, and most im-
portantly, uncanny vocal impressions. The modulator 
can also play back (and more or less perfectly imitate) a 
recorded or captured voice. Add the Rating of the mod-
ulator to your dice pool for Impersonation skill tests.
>> STREET GEAR <<
452    Electronics >>
