

===== PDF page 133 =====
>	
That, and even today, runners are still hesitant to break 
into any building that could be considered a Renraku 
Arcology-type situation. Seriously, what happened 
between 2059 and 2061 was some scary shit that left a 
lot of people scarred for life. And the smart runners know 
that the corps never, ever, learn from their mistakes. There 
could always be second-generation Deus just waiting to 
do the same thing all over again. And given how they are 
treating technomancers and AIs …
>	
Balladeer
In addition to its activities relating to the Matrix, Ren-
raku is also making nuyen off the sprawl from its finan-
cial and investment firms spread throughout Manhattan, 
such as Champion Financial. They also hold the contract 
for sanitation and for leasing street-sweeper drones to 
Manhattan to keep the streets clean (they also lease 
snow-plow drones). On top of everything else, Renraku 
now also runs GridGuide for the Manhattan sprawl, hav-
ing bought the property from Mitsuhama back in 2074.
Renraku is believed to be keeping its CFD research 
contained within its high-security Renraku Tower in Mid-
town. Renraku appears to be tackling the problem of the 
virus through nanotechnology. Whereas Saeder-Krupp 
was researching nanites to create better diagnostic 
tools, Renraku is researching and developing new types 
of nanites as nanite hunters in an effort to eliminate cor-
rupted nanites before they can cause damage. So far, 
Renraku has not experienced much success. From what I 
have heard, the problem is that any nanites carrying the 
virus are able to infect nanite hunters, getting them to 
work to spread the virus to the patient instead of curing 
them. So in Renraku’s (rather unethical) testing meth-
ods, when a metahuman test subject was intentionally 
infected with the CFD virus via nanite injection, and then 
given these newly designed nanite hunters to “cure” the 
disease, they ended up expressing new (and sometimes 
additional) personalities faster than they would have 
had they not been given the nanite hunters. Renraku 
researchers are having a distinct problem with the inva-
siveness of the CFD virus and with its seemingly urgent 
imperative to spread, much like biological microorgan-
isms. It’s hard to tell where all these corporations are in 
their research at this point in comparison to their rivals, 
but Renraku seems to be further behind the rest with all 
the difficulties they have been experiencing with these 
nanite hunters. Given how invasive and transmittable 
the corrupted programming of the CFD virus is, Renraku 
may in fact have to give up their line of research into 
nano therapies (which is starting to look like a dead end 
to me) and broaden their research into other fields that 
hold more promise.
>	
One thing I have heard about Renraku is that they are 
not only just infecting ordinary metahumans with the 
CFD virus (which goes far beyond contemptuous), they 
are also doing so to technomancers and even a few 
Awakened who they extracted from their penitentiaries 
just to see how head crash occurs in their physiologies. 
Pretty disturbing stuff if you ask me. Particularly since 
these two populations generally do not go in for unnatural 
augmentations that put their natural talents at risk. 
>	
Beaker
>	
It’s my understanding that Renraku has also been busy 
hiring runners to track down shapeshifters and put 
them into these trials as well, to see if a shapeshifter’s 
regenerative properties protect them from the effects 
of the CFD virus. I haven’t heard anything yet about the 
results of those tests. 
>	
Sticks
>	
It would not surprise me in the least if Renraku started 
rounding up bug spirits to experiment on … oh wait, that’s 
Ares’ bailiwick. Never mind. 
>	
Balladeer  
 
Like Evo, Mitsuhama has a limited presence in 
Manhattan. Ever since being kicked off the Manhattan 
Development Consortium, business opportunities for 
MCT within the sprawl have slowly dwindled (thanks 
to MDC and its vindictive nature), with MCT only able 
to hang onto certain interests through its influence on 
the Corporate Court and the pressure it could bring to 
bear on the double-A corporations from its Corporate 
Court justices. In Manhattan, MCT’s security drones 
are big business, but often times they compete directly 
with Winter Systems, and unfortunately for MCT, Winter 
Systems has the luxury of being able to manipulate 
the playing field to give them a home-field advantage. 
MCT’s commercial drone lines (household drones, 
industrial drones) are popular but also face similar 
challenges and competition from the other corps on 
the MDC, from S-K and Aztechnology to Horizon and 
Renraku. Due to  all these factors, MCT’s drone lines are 
not nearly as profitable in Manhattan as they are in other 
parts of North America. 
>	
Given MCT’s difficulties in being able to compete in the 
Manhattan market, it should be no surprise to anyone that 
MCT and their justices are leading the charge to merge 
the MDC functions with the Corporate Court. If MCT 
should fail to buy a seat on the MDC, expect tensions to 
rise as the MCT justices pursue this merger. 
>	
Kay St. Irregular
Most of MCT’s CFD virus research is being handled 
by their CodeBlue Biotech subsidiary, which has an eigh-
teen-story research facility in Newtown, eight blocks 
away from their main office complex. CodeBlue Bio-
tech is rumored to be pursuing various bioware options 
to regenerate damaged tissue caused by the CFD virus 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< LOADED C-SUITES OF NEW YORK    131


===== PDF page 134 =====
and to restore the tissue to its natural state. Rumors are 
CodeBlue Biotech is working on tweaking Léonization 
therapies to fix the damage left by the CFD virus. So far, 
MCT has seen little progress from this line of research, 
with the trials often inflicting more damage to the pa-
tient than what was there previously. However, since 
some of what MCT is trying to do with biotech mirrors 
what NeoNET and Dorada Biotech are attempting, you 
can bet there are a lot of runs happening between these 
two corporations to scout out any developments the 
other corporation has made, or to try to learn of any new 
lines of research the other corp may be pursuing. Those 
knowledgeable of MCT believe that they, if they succeed 
in finding a cure or treatment for the CFD virus, they will 
try to use that advancement as additional leverage to 
get back onto the MDC. 
>	
The CFD virus and the Corporate Court angles aren’t 
MCT’s only plays on getting back on the MDC. Multiple 
sources within the shadows have allowed it to leak out 
that MCT has submitted a proposal to the MDC to be the 
corporation to clean up the Terminal Z-Zone. The MDC 
has tabled the matter for now, but doing something to 
improve Terminal is very popular with a vast majority of 
the wealthy socialites that live in Manhattan, and they no 
longer want to put up with the unsightly blight and the 
nauseous odors that occasionally drift over into the better 
parts of Manhattan. The MDC desperately wants to do 
something with Terminal, but as NYPD, Inc. has pointed 
out, doing so would be bloody and it would be resource 
intensive. Apparently, MCT is willing to suffer the losses if 
it means getting back into the good graces of the MDC in 
the long term. But the MDC is reluctant to move on such 
a proposal due to MCT’s well-established reputation for 
cold and efficient ruthlessness, particularly with its zero 
zones. Allowing MCT to act in such a manner could cause 
more problems for the MDC than they already have. But 
at the same time, they also realize the wealthy elite of the 
sprawl have limits to their patience and tolerance. And 
make no mistake, places like the Pit and Terminal are seen 
as blights on an otherwise glamorous sprawl for the elite. 
If there is even a minor incident with Terminal, the wealthy 
and the well connected will be clamoring for major 
change with the existing policy of containment, despite 
the political fallout that might happen from outside 
Manhattan for allowing MCT to act on their behalf and 
clean house. Obviously, these leaks have only fired up the 
neo-anarchists, intensifying their protests and their anti-
corporate actions. There could very well be a powder keg 
brewing on the streets of Manhattan, waiting to go off. 
>	
Dr. Spin 
>	
Don’t forget the new spirit of cooperativeness running 
through the Japanacorps. They don’t see eye to eye on 
everything and will still occasionally stab each other 
in the back, but they’re also doing what they can to 
consolidate power within themselves, figuring that 
power held by a Japanese rival is better than power held 
by anyone else. So look for Renraku and Shiawase to 
support MCT’s efforts.
>	
Baka Dabora
>	
Except when it comes to the Corporate Court getting 
more oversight over the CDC. MCT is pretty much on their 
own on that one.
>	
Cosmo
I do not like mentioning these researchers, as I 
believe these particular individuals are highly unethical 
and potentially dangerous. But the researchers for 
Renraku that are working in this field are Doctors Sinji 
Iwai, Rokuro Isa, and Teruo Kamiya. Renraku has a lot 
riding with these researchers, and as such, they are 
rarely found outside of the Renraku Tower. For MCT and 
CodeBlue Biotech, the researchers who are getting the 
most notice in academic and scientific circles include 
Doctors Haruaki Kozawa and Minoru Samurakami, both 
of whom have questionable ethics and tend to put their 
own personal agendas ahead of good science.
   
AZTECHNOLOGY  
AND WUXING 
Aztechnology has proven to be a major influence (for 
good and ill) on modern day Manhattan. The corp has 
been a big presence on the MDC since the first part this 
century, when the ORO corporation contributed billions 
of dollars to help rebuild Manhattan. As a benefit of sup-
plying the much-needed funds, ORO received a lucrative 
design contract for the entire Manhattan sprawl. ORO 
worked with the other corporations (and in a limited 
fashion, the city’s political leadership) to come up with 
unified designs for the new skyscrapers that both hon-
ored New York’s past while giving New York City a new, 
modern, and futuristic appearance. ORO would go on to 
make hundreds of billions of dollars over the next seven 
decades, and the capital it received from the city helped 
bring ORO (soon to be Aztechnology) to prominence on 
the world stage. Even today, Aztechnology continues to 
receive architectural contracts within Manhattan from 
various corporations and the MDC. Aztechnology con-
tinues to have a significant say in shaping how the Man-
hattan sprawl and its skyline appears. But since Aztech-
nology took such a prominent role within Manhattan, its 
architectural contracts aren’t the only thing it has going 
for it. Aztechnology is the leader in consumer goods in 
Manhattan, just like it is worldwide. They control a num-
ber of high-end arko-malls scattered throughout down-
town, midtown, and other upscale parts of Manhattan, 
filled with trendy and expensive merchandise. With ad 
firms that can launch PR campaigns to rival those of 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
132    LOADED C-SUITES OF NEW YORK >>


===== PDF page 174 =====
Grover closed the apartment door and changed the 
code. He could not get over the fact that these two cops 
were egregiously violating Mr. Collins’ civil rights. And 
the way they were acting, they seemed to have been 
carrying out a very haphazard investigation. 
After thinking it over for a few more moments, Grover 
decided to pursue the detectives. He opened the door 
and called to the detectives, who had already reached 
the bottom landing and were on their way to the emer-
gency exit. “Detectives! I still think you did a half-assed 
job here, and I don’t like the fact that you wouldn’t let me 
call DocWagon. I want the name and commcode of your 
supervisor so I can file a complaint.”
“Of course. Here it is,” replied Burke pleasantly. He 
immediately sent the contact information to Grover’s 
commlink. “Our captain is Barney Miller of the twelfth 
precinct. He’ll tell you exactly what we’ve already told 
you.” The stairwell door closed shut behind the detec-
tives. They were gone.
Grover immediately called the commcode, getting a 
queasy feeling in his stomach. In all the years he has had 
interactions with cops as a leasing manager, he has nev-
er seen one so willing to give up the name and contact 
information of their supervisor. And the fact that the elf 
was doing all the talking? Something was indeed wrong. 
Grover’s fears were suddenly validated when a record-
ing came on to answer.
“We’re sorry. The commcode you have dialed has 
been disconnected or is no longer in service. Please 
check the number and try your call again.”
GETTING THEM OUT
POSTED BY: STICKS
As many of you know, I am a bounty hunter. For some 
very personal reasons, I usually only go after bug spir-
its. I pick up a bounty, find the target, and exterminate 
it. This way, I don’t have to worry about taking my tar-
gets alive or moving them; all I have to worry about is 
proof of death (or in a spirit’s case, disruption). Howev-
er, sometimes out of necessity (and the need for nuy-
en) I occasionally take on certain targets of opportu-
nity, usually targets near my current location that have 
high payouts. Unfortunately, some of those side jobs 
have to be taken alive. What follows are tools that have 
proven most useful to me when I  take on such jobs. 
Whether you’re looking to pull off just one job to ex-
tract an unwilling target safely and conveniently or are 
looking to specialize in extractions, these are tools you 
may wish to consider. They may allow for your job(s) to 
go a lot smoother with fewer complications. And really, 
who doesn’t want a run that isn’t easier and allows all 
your chummers to return home to either their families 
or to the hard-earned nuyen they wish to enjoy?  Have 
a look, and if something strikes your fancy, I’m sure 
your fixer will know of a way to acquire it for you. 
THE HOUDINI MACHINE
Don’t look for a corporate-designed version of this 
device on the market. There isn’t one, since there isn’t 
much market demand for something this specialized. 
This device only has one purpose: to make people 
disappear. The Houdini machine was first cobbled to-
gether by some nameless runners a few years ago and 
currently can be found on the black market with only a 
little digging. 
The machine is made up of two auto-injectors. They 
are not implanted. Rather, these versions have been spe-
cially modified to act as intravenous drip machines that 
can be strapped onto each arm of the subject. Each one 
has the extra dose modification, giving the machine six 
doses of any substance of your choosing. One of the au-
to-injectors is typically loaded with drugs to sedate and 
keep the unwilling subject of an extraction unconscious. 
This way you don’t have to worry about a target that will 
continually resist you and undermine you at every turn. 
The other auto-injector is typically equipped with sa-
line solution and special liquid nutrients to keep the sub-
ject hydrated and healthy over a lengthy period of time, 
keeping them in a condition desirable for Mr. Johnson. 
This part of the Houdini machine is invaluable, especially 
if you can’t drop the target off right away of if you have 
to lay low for any given amount of time with the subject. 
This device can keep the subject unconscious  for days if 
necessary, without the need to refill the auto-injectors. 
There are two versions of this Houdini machine. The 
cheaper (and much cruder) version has the two auto-in-
jectors subscribed to a commlink and a biomonitor. The 
commlink has special programming installed on it, and 
coupled with the biomonitor, can inject the drugs or 
nutrients when the biomonitor prompts it to do so. This 
lessens the need for constant (and tedious) monitoring 
by shadowrunners who are carrying out the extraction. 
With this version, a majority of metahumans will remain 
unconscious for up to two days before the auto-injectors 
need refilling. The second version is tied into a medkit 
computer. The advantage of this version is that a med-
kit computer is much more efficient with managing and 
dispensing drugs, as well as selecting the right dosag-
es and nutrient levels for the subject. Using the Houdi-
ni machine version with the medkit computer, you can 
keep a subject unconscious for up to three days before 
having to refill the auto-injectors, as opposed to the two 
days with the other machine. 
Unfortunately, there is one downside to using the 
Houdini machine. The saline and the drugs can be 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
172    EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT >>


===== PDF page 175 =====
pumped directly into the veins of the subject (which can 
be handled by simple first-aid techniques), but the liq-
uid nutrients cannot. They have to be pumped into the 
stomach of the subject. So if you are using liquid nutri-
ents, you or your team need either to run a line through 
the subject’s nose using a nasogastric (NG) tube, or you 
will have to create a temporary shunt between the au-
to-injector and the stomach (which the auto-injector is 
capable of handling). Either way, first-aid knowledge 
alone isn’t going to cut it. You’ll need someone with at 
least some formal medical training to fully implement 
this function. Most of the runners I know get by just 
keeping the target hydrated, so that’s always an option 
if you don’t have an actual medic in your group to set 
up the auto-injectors for administering liquid nutrients. 
>	
Why should I even bother with this when I have a mage 
in my party who can do the exact same thing with her 
magic? Seems like a waste of money to me.
>	
Treadle
>	
I knew someone was going to ask me that. Why dedicate 
your magician to sustaining spells just to keep your 
prisoner/target unconscious, or why dedicate them 
to keeping them nourished, when you can let this 
machine do the work for them? You may need their focus 
elsewhere, especially if something goes wrong and you 
need to go into combat. Plus, this machine doesn’t get 
tired like magicians do. Your mage will eventually have to 
fall asleep. Even if they are able to use sustaining focuses 
to transfer the spells onto them to keep the person out 
or nourished, you still have the problem of having active 
foci and active spells that could draw unwanted astral 
attention. I’m not saying going the magical route couldn’t 
be done. All I’m saying is this way is potentially simpler. 
Plus, this is a viable option for teams that don’t have 
magicians. Not all runner teams have magic as an option. 
Contrary to popular belief, magic is still pretty rare, even 
in the shadows.  
>	
Sticks
>	
Also, no auras to worry about with this thing.
>	
Mika
>	
Even though I’ve heard good things about the Houdini 
machine, I also know trolls and dwarfs can be problematic 
for the version using only the commlink and the 
biomonitor. Trolls, because of their body mass, have a 
chance of regaining consciousness even if they are being 
perpetually drugged. Those rigs tend not to calculate 
the proper dosage for their body mass. The same goes 
for the dwarfs and their resilient physiologies. If you are 
extracting a troll or a dwarf and are using the cheaper 
model, you may need to set it up to double up on the 
sedatives, which will cut in half the amount of time 
you can use the machine to keep them under before 
a refill is needed. Or simply eliminate the possibility of 
them waking up early by using the one with the medkit 
computer. A medkit computer is better at compensating 
for a troll’s or a dwarf’s physiology. Just keep this in mind 
so you don’t find yourself in a situation where your target 
is trying to kill you in your sleep or ends up trying to rabbit 
on you because you used the wrong machine.
>	
Butch
VEHICLES, GEAR,  
AND DRONES
In regards to the bounties I collect on bug spirits, 
I often have very little need to be subtle. I can go in 
with flamethrowers or guns blazing, kicking in doors 
and setting things on fire until they die. That’s what’s 
nice about bug spirits setting up their nests or hives in 
out-of-the-way places. But there are many occasions 
where circumstances call for runners to operate with a 
lot more grace and subtlety than what I usually do for 
successful extractions, especially in urban settings or in 
high-security areas. So what happens if a runner team 
needs to extract someone from a pricey and secure 
apartment high rise with lots of security? In a way that 
won’t also bring down the full force of Knight Errant 
upon their heads when things go sideways? 
One potential way to do it is for a runner team to 
spoof a call going out from the high rise to DocWag-
on. They could then pose as a DocWagon team and can 
pretend to be responding to that emergency call. With 
appropriate-looking gear, such as uniforms, medkits 
and a gurney, a team can convince the front desk per-
sonnel they are indeed DocWagon medics. When the 
front desk confirms a call had gone out to DocWagon, 
the front desk will likely admit the team into the build-
ing with no further objections to treat “the patient.” 
Once inside, the team would have almost unfettered 
access to the rest of building and can simply walk up to 
the right apartment where they can find a way to sur-
prise and render their target unconscious without dis-
turbing the neighbors. The team could then wheel the 
now-unconscious target out on their gurney through 
the front doors as if he was a regular DocWagon patient 
requiring medical attention. As an added precaution, 
an extraction team might wish to slap on a counterfeit 
DocWagon wristband. This trick could easily work or be 
modified if the team needs to dress up as Knight Errant/
Lone Star cops, corp security, UCAS federal agents, or 
any other agency that is expected and has the authority 
to remove people from various properties, willingly or 
not.  Going into a place under the color of authority can 
make for an easy extraction. 
One of the biggest troubles runners have is with the 
uniforms they are required to wear for their disguise and 
cover story. The details about the uniforms should be 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT    173
