

===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 133 =====
>	
That, and even today, runners are still hesitant to break 
into any building that could be considered a Renraku 
Arcology-type situation. Seriously, what happened 
between 2059 and 2061 was some scary shit that left a 
lot of people scarred for life. And the smart runners know 
that the corps never, ever, learn from their mistakes. There 
could always be second-generation Deus just waiting to 
do the same thing all over again. And given how they are 
treating technomancers and AIs …
>	
Balladeer
In addition to its activities relating to the Matrix, Ren-
raku is also making nuyen off the sprawl from its finan-
cial and investment firms spread throughout Manhattan, 
such as Champion Financial. They also hold the contract 
for sanitation and for leasing street-sweeper drones to 
Manhattan to keep the streets clean (they also lease 
snow-plow drones). On top of everything else, Renraku 
now also runs GridGuide for the Manhattan sprawl, hav-
ing bought the property from Mitsuhama back in 2074.
Renraku is believed to be keeping its CFD research 
contained within its high-security Renraku Tower in Mid-
town. Renraku appears to be tackling the problem of the 
virus through nanotechnology. Whereas Saeder-Krupp 
was researching nanites to create better diagnostic 
tools, Renraku is researching and developing new types 
of nanites as nanite hunters in an effort to eliminate cor-
rupted nanites before they can cause damage. So far, 
Renraku has not experienced much success. From what I 
have heard, the problem is that any nanites carrying the 
virus are able to infect nanite hunters, getting them to 
work to spread the virus to the patient instead of curing 
them. So in Renraku’s (rather unethical) testing meth-
ods, when a metahuman test subject was intentionally 
infected with the CFD virus via nanite injection, and then 
given these newly designed nanite hunters to “cure” the 
disease, they ended up expressing new (and sometimes 
additional) personalities faster than they would have 
had they not been given the nanite hunters. Renraku 
researchers are having a distinct problem with the inva-
siveness of the CFD virus and with its seemingly urgent 
imperative to spread, much like biological microorgan-
isms. It’s hard to tell where all these corporations are in 
their research at this point in comparison to their rivals, 
but Renraku seems to be further behind the rest with all 
the difficulties they have been experiencing with these 
nanite hunters. Given how invasive and transmittable 
the corrupted programming of the CFD virus is, Renraku 
may in fact have to give up their line of research into 
nano therapies (which is starting to look like a dead end 
to me) and broaden their research into other fields that 
hold more promise.
>	
One thing I have heard about Renraku is that they are 
not only just infecting ordinary metahumans with the 
CFD virus (which goes far beyond contemptuous), they 
are also doing so to technomancers and even a few 
Awakened who they extracted from their penitentiaries 
just to see how head crash occurs in their physiologies. 
Pretty disturbing stuff if you ask me. Particularly since 
these two populations generally do not go in for unnatural 
augmentations that put their natural talents at risk. 
>	
Beaker
>	
It’s my understanding that Renraku has also been busy 
hiring runners to track down shapeshifters and put 
them into these trials as well, to see if a shapeshifter’s 
regenerative properties protect them from the effects 
of the CFD virus. I haven’t heard anything yet about the 
results of those tests. 
>	
Sticks
>	
It would not surprise me in the least if Renraku started 
rounding up bug spirits to experiment on … oh wait, that’s 
Ares’ bailiwick. Never mind. 
>	
Balladeer  
 
Like Evo, Mitsuhama has a limited presence in 
Manhattan. Ever since being kicked off the Manhattan 
Development Consortium, business opportunities for 
MCT within the sprawl have slowly dwindled (thanks 
to MDC and its vindictive nature), with MCT only able 
to hang onto certain interests through its influence on 
the Corporate Court and the pressure it could bring to 
bear on the double-A corporations from its Corporate 
Court justices. In Manhattan, MCT’s security drones 
are big business, but often times they compete directly 
with Winter Systems, and unfortunately for MCT, Winter 
Systems has the luxury of being able to manipulate 
the playing field to give them a home-field advantage. 
MCT’s commercial drone lines (household drones, 
industrial drones) are popular but also face similar 
challenges and competition from the other corps on 
the MDC, from S-K and Aztechnology to Horizon and 
Renraku. Due to  all these factors, MCT’s drone lines are 
not nearly as profitable in Manhattan as they are in other 
parts of North America. 
>	
Given MCT’s difficulties in being able to compete in the 
Manhattan market, it should be no surprise to anyone that 
MCT and their justices are leading the charge to merge 
the MDC functions with the Corporate Court. If MCT 
should fail to buy a seat on the MDC, expect tensions to 
rise as the MCT justices pursue this merger. 
>	
Kay St. Irregular
Most of MCT’s CFD virus research is being handled 
by their CodeBlue Biotech subsidiary, which has an eigh-
teen-story research facility in Newtown, eight blocks 
away from their main office complex. CodeBlue Bio-
tech is rumored to be pursuing various bioware options 
to regenerate damaged tissue caused by the CFD virus 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< LOADED C-SUITES OF NEW YORK    131


===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 134 =====
and to restore the tissue to its natural state. Rumors are 
CodeBlue Biotech is working on tweaking Léonization 
therapies to fix the damage left by the CFD virus. So far, 
MCT has seen little progress from this line of research, 
with the trials often inflicting more damage to the pa-
tient than what was there previously. However, since 
some of what MCT is trying to do with biotech mirrors 
what NeoNET and Dorada Biotech are attempting, you 
can bet there are a lot of runs happening between these 
two corporations to scout out any developments the 
other corporation has made, or to try to learn of any new 
lines of research the other corp may be pursuing. Those 
knowledgeable of MCT believe that they, if they succeed 
in finding a cure or treatment for the CFD virus, they will 
try to use that advancement as additional leverage to 
get back onto the MDC. 
>	
The CFD virus and the Corporate Court angles aren’t 
MCT’s only plays on getting back on the MDC. Multiple 
sources within the shadows have allowed it to leak out 
that MCT has submitted a proposal to the MDC to be the 
corporation to clean up the Terminal Z-Zone. The MDC 
has tabled the matter for now, but doing something to 
improve Terminal is very popular with a vast majority of 
the wealthy socialites that live in Manhattan, and they no 
longer want to put up with the unsightly blight and the 
nauseous odors that occasionally drift over into the better 
parts of Manhattan. The MDC desperately wants to do 
something with Terminal, but as NYPD, Inc. has pointed 
out, doing so would be bloody and it would be resource 
intensive. Apparently, MCT is willing to suffer the losses if 
it means getting back into the good graces of the MDC in 
the long term. But the MDC is reluctant to move on such 
a proposal due to MCT’s well-established reputation for 
cold and efficient ruthlessness, particularly with its zero 
zones. Allowing MCT to act in such a manner could cause 
more problems for the MDC than they already have. But 
at the same time, they also realize the wealthy elite of the 
sprawl have limits to their patience and tolerance. And 
make no mistake, places like the Pit and Terminal are seen 
as blights on an otherwise glamorous sprawl for the elite. 
If there is even a minor incident with Terminal, the wealthy 
and the well connected will be clamoring for major 
change with the existing policy of containment, despite 
the political fallout that might happen from outside 
Manhattan for allowing MCT to act on their behalf and 
clean house. Obviously, these leaks have only fired up the 
neo-anarchists, intensifying their protests and their anti-
corporate actions. There could very well be a powder keg 
brewing on the streets of Manhattan, waiting to go off. 
>	
Dr. Spin 
>	
Don’t forget the new spirit of cooperativeness running 
through the Japanacorps. They don’t see eye to eye on 
everything and will still occasionally stab each other 
in the back, but they’re also doing what they can to 
consolidate power within themselves, figuring that 
power held by a Japanese rival is better than power held 
by anyone else. So look for Renraku and Shiawase to 
support MCT’s efforts.
>	
Baka Dabora
>	
Except when it comes to the Corporate Court getting 
more oversight over the CDC. MCT is pretty much on their 
own on that one.
>	
Cosmo
I do not like mentioning these researchers, as I 
believe these particular individuals are highly unethical 
and potentially dangerous. But the researchers for 
Renraku that are working in this field are Doctors Sinji 
Iwai, Rokuro Isa, and Teruo Kamiya. Renraku has a lot 
riding with these researchers, and as such, they are 
rarely found outside of the Renraku Tower. For MCT and 
CodeBlue Biotech, the researchers who are getting the 
most notice in academic and scientific circles include 
Doctors Haruaki Kozawa and Minoru Samurakami, both 
of whom have questionable ethics and tend to put their 
own personal agendas ahead of good science.
   
AZTECHNOLOGY  
AND WUXING 
Aztechnology has proven to be a major influence (for 
good and ill) on modern day Manhattan. The corp has 
been a big presence on the MDC since the first part this 
century, when the ORO corporation contributed billions 
of dollars to help rebuild Manhattan. As a benefit of sup-
plying the much-needed funds, ORO received a lucrative 
design contract for the entire Manhattan sprawl. ORO 
worked with the other corporations (and in a limited 
fashion, the city’s political leadership) to come up with 
unified designs for the new skyscrapers that both hon-
ored New York’s past while giving New York City a new, 
modern, and futuristic appearance. ORO would go on to 
make hundreds of billions of dollars over the next seven 
decades, and the capital it received from the city helped 
bring ORO (soon to be Aztechnology) to prominence on 
the world stage. Even today, Aztechnology continues to 
receive architectural contracts within Manhattan from 
various corporations and the MDC. Aztechnology con-
tinues to have a significant say in shaping how the Man-
hattan sprawl and its skyline appears. But since Aztech-
nology took such a prominent role within Manhattan, its 
architectural contracts aren’t the only thing it has going 
for it. Aztechnology is the leader in consumer goods in 
Manhattan, just like it is worldwide. They control a num-
ber of high-end arko-malls scattered throughout down-
town, midtown, and other upscale parts of Manhattan, 
filled with trendy and expensive merchandise. With ad 
firms that can launch PR campaigns to rival those of 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
132    LOADED C-SUITES OF NEW YORK >>


===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 173 =====
ing straight for the elevators. Grover felt sorry for the 
man who was about to get ambushed by NYPD, but he 
didn’t want to get involved. He didn’t want to get ac-
cused of obstructing justice. He just wanted to go home 
to his family in Queens and be done with this day. Gro-
ver watched from his office as Collins calmly boarded 
the elevator, looking weary after what appeared to be 
a full day of work. The middle-aged man rode it up to 
the fifth floor. Grover didn’t really want to watch, but 
eventually opened an AR screen with security camera 
footage from the hallway leading to Collins’ apartment. 
He knew as a civic-minded person, he should record as 
much of the encounter as possible, in case it was even-
tually needed as evidence. He turned the sensitivity on 
the camera’s microphone up to its maximum setting to 
get as much of the audio of the encounter as possible. 
A few moments later, Grover watched Collins disappear 
into his apartment.
“Who the fuck are you guys?” demanded the 
now-disembodied voice.
“NYPD, Inc. We’re here to execute a search warrant.”
“The hell you are.” 
Suddenly two muffled shots rang out. 
“Oh crap.” Grover shot up from his chair and raced 
to the elevator. By the time he reached the fifth floor, a 
small crowd had gathered outside the apartment. Both 
Burke and Williams were outside the apartment, busy 
working to disperse the crowd, telling everyone there 
was no need to call for emergency services, as NYPD, 
Inc. were already on site.
“What happened? I didn’t think there would be any 
violence,” Grover shouted, as he stormed passed the 
onlookers. Looking into the apartment for himself, he 
saw Collins lying on the ground near the doorway, un-
conscious and in handcuffs. The apartment looked like it 
had been thoroughly searched.  
“When he entered the premise, we announced who 
we were, but Mr. Collins pulled out a pistol. We respond-
ed with non-lethal force. Mr. Collins is sedated but fine. 
Furthermore, he did not get a shot off, so there was no 
damage done to your property,” stated Detective Burke. 
“All right. I suppose I should call DocWagon then. His 
file says he has a contract with them.”
“No.”
“Excuse me?”
“We need to transport him in a few minutes. It is cru-
cial for our case to get him back to the station and start 
interrogating him before word spreads of his capture 
and his accomplices can flee our jurisdiction. We will 
provide him medical care back at the station. You don’t 
need to be worried about that.”
“This is damn irregular. And aren’t you going to be 
writing up a report about all this? Or collecting security 
camera footage? You’re just going to run off with him?”
“Listen. We found what we were looking for inside 
Collins’ apartment,” Burke replied. He held up three 
clear evidence bags, one containing four commlinks, a 
second containing nearly a dozen optical chips and the 
third containing what likely was Collins’ pistol. “The com-
mlinks and the optical chips make this an open-and-shut 
case for us. We have the suspect’s weapon. And Detec-
tive Williams’ cybereyes recorded the entire assault. We 
may have to come back for follow-up interviews and get 
that footage, but right now, we must think about build-
ing the case against his co-conspirators. Now, there’s 
something we need you to do.”
“What’s that?”
“We would like to take Mr. Collins through the emer-
gency exit of this building. We’re already having our car 
brought around for us. If you could disable the fire alarm 
on that door, we can be out of your hair and allow you to 
return to regular work.” 
“Why do you want to use the emergency exit?”
“Do you really want us to be carrying a handcuffed 
suspect out through the front doors, in view of many 
more of your residents and possibly to everyone else 
who lives around here? Do you really want Thorn-
wood Apartments to get that kind of reputation? Going 
through the alleyway would be far more discreet.”
Grover grumbled, but agreed. “I see your point. 
Thanks for that.” The troll, Detective Williams, gathered 
up the unconscious resident and threw him over his 
shoulder. Both detectives headed to the stairwell lead-
ing down to the emergency exit. Grover tapped a button 
on his AR displays, disarming the alarm. “It’s down. It’ll 
be off for a minute to allow you to get him to your car.” 
“Thank you for your cooperation.” The two quickly 
disappeared into the stairwell.
<< EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT    171


===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 174 =====
Grover closed the apartment door and changed the 
code. He could not get over the fact that these two cops 
were egregiously violating Mr. Collins’ civil rights. And 
the way they were acting, they seemed to have been 
carrying out a very haphazard investigation. 
After thinking it over for a few more moments, Grover 
decided to pursue the detectives. He opened the door 
and called to the detectives, who had already reached 
the bottom landing and were on their way to the emer-
gency exit. “Detectives! I still think you did a half-assed 
job here, and I don’t like the fact that you wouldn’t let me 
call DocWagon. I want the name and commcode of your 
supervisor so I can file a complaint.”
“Of course. Here it is,” replied Burke pleasantly. He 
immediately sent the contact information to Grover’s 
commlink. “Our captain is Barney Miller of the twelfth 
precinct. He’ll tell you exactly what we’ve already told 
you.” The stairwell door closed shut behind the detec-
tives. They were gone.
Grover immediately called the commcode, getting a 
queasy feeling in his stomach. In all the years he has had 
interactions with cops as a leasing manager, he has nev-
er seen one so willing to give up the name and contact 
information of their supervisor. And the fact that the elf 
was doing all the talking? Something was indeed wrong. 
Grover’s fears were suddenly validated when a record-
ing came on to answer.
“We’re sorry. The commcode you have dialed has 
been disconnected or is no longer in service. Please 
check the number and try your call again.”
GETTING THEM OUT
POSTED BY: STICKS
As many of you know, I am a bounty hunter. For some 
very personal reasons, I usually only go after bug spir-
its. I pick up a bounty, find the target, and exterminate 
it. This way, I don’t have to worry about taking my tar-
gets alive or moving them; all I have to worry about is 
proof of death (or in a spirit’s case, disruption). Howev-
er, sometimes out of necessity (and the need for nuy-
en) I occasionally take on certain targets of opportu-
nity, usually targets near my current location that have 
high payouts. Unfortunately, some of those side jobs 
have to be taken alive. What follows are tools that have 
proven most useful to me when I  take on such jobs. 
Whether you’re looking to pull off just one job to ex-
tract an unwilling target safely and conveniently or are 
looking to specialize in extractions, these are tools you 
may wish to consider. They may allow for your job(s) to 
go a lot smoother with fewer complications. And really, 
who doesn’t want a run that isn’t easier and allows all 
your chummers to return home to either their families 
or to the hard-earned nuyen they wish to enjoy?  Have 
a look, and if something strikes your fancy, I’m sure 
your fixer will know of a way to acquire it for you. 
THE HOUDINI MACHINE
Don’t look for a corporate-designed version of this 
device on the market. There isn’t one, since there isn’t 
much market demand for something this specialized. 
This device only has one purpose: to make people 
disappear. The Houdini machine was first cobbled to-
gether by some nameless runners a few years ago and 
currently can be found on the black market with only a 
little digging. 
The machine is made up of two auto-injectors. They 
are not implanted. Rather, these versions have been spe-
cially modified to act as intravenous drip machines that 
can be strapped onto each arm of the subject. Each one 
has the extra dose modification, giving the machine six 
doses of any substance of your choosing. One of the au-
to-injectors is typically loaded with drugs to sedate and 
keep the unwilling subject of an extraction unconscious. 
This way you don’t have to worry about a target that will 
continually resist you and undermine you at every turn. 
The other auto-injector is typically equipped with sa-
line solution and special liquid nutrients to keep the sub-
ject hydrated and healthy over a lengthy period of time, 
keeping them in a condition desirable for Mr. Johnson. 
This part of the Houdini machine is invaluable, especially 
if you can’t drop the target off right away of if you have 
to lay low for any given amount of time with the subject. 
This device can keep the subject unconscious  for days if 
necessary, without the need to refill the auto-injectors. 
There are two versions of this Houdini machine. The 
cheaper (and much cruder) version has the two auto-in-
jectors subscribed to a commlink and a biomonitor. The 
commlink has special programming installed on it, and 
coupled with the biomonitor, can inject the drugs or 
nutrients when the biomonitor prompts it to do so. This 
lessens the need for constant (and tedious) monitoring 
by shadowrunners who are carrying out the extraction. 
With this version, a majority of metahumans will remain 
unconscious for up to two days before the auto-injectors 
need refilling. The second version is tied into a medkit 
computer. The advantage of this version is that a med-
kit computer is much more efficient with managing and 
dispensing drugs, as well as selecting the right dosag-
es and nutrient levels for the subject. Using the Houdi-
ni machine version with the medkit computer, you can 
keep a subject unconscious for up to three days before 
having to refill the auto-injectors, as opposed to the two 
days with the other machine. 
Unfortunately, there is one downside to using the 
Houdini machine. The saline and the drugs can be 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
172    EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT >>


===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 175 =====
pumped directly into the veins of the subject (which can 
be handled by simple first-aid techniques), but the liq-
uid nutrients cannot. They have to be pumped into the 
stomach of the subject. So if you are using liquid nutri-
ents, you or your team need either to run a line through 
the subject’s nose using a nasogastric (NG) tube, or you 
will have to create a temporary shunt between the au-
to-injector and the stomach (which the auto-injector is 
capable of handling). Either way, first-aid knowledge 
alone isn’t going to cut it. You’ll need someone with at 
least some formal medical training to fully implement 
this function. Most of the runners I know get by just 
keeping the target hydrated, so that’s always an option 
if you don’t have an actual medic in your group to set 
up the auto-injectors for administering liquid nutrients. 
>	
Why should I even bother with this when I have a mage 
in my party who can do the exact same thing with her 
magic? Seems like a waste of money to me.
>	
Treadle
>	
I knew someone was going to ask me that. Why dedicate 
your magician to sustaining spells just to keep your 
prisoner/target unconscious, or why dedicate them 
to keeping them nourished, when you can let this 
machine do the work for them? You may need their focus 
elsewhere, especially if something goes wrong and you 
need to go into combat. Plus, this machine doesn’t get 
tired like magicians do. Your mage will eventually have to 
fall asleep. Even if they are able to use sustaining focuses 
to transfer the spells onto them to keep the person out 
or nourished, you still have the problem of having active 
foci and active spells that could draw unwanted astral 
attention. I’m not saying going the magical route couldn’t 
be done. All I’m saying is this way is potentially simpler. 
Plus, this is a viable option for teams that don’t have 
magicians. Not all runner teams have magic as an option. 
Contrary to popular belief, magic is still pretty rare, even 
in the shadows.  
>	
Sticks
>	
Also, no auras to worry about with this thing.
>	
Mika
>	
Even though I’ve heard good things about the Houdini 
machine, I also know trolls and dwarfs can be problematic 
for the version using only the commlink and the 
biomonitor. Trolls, because of their body mass, have a 
chance of regaining consciousness even if they are being 
perpetually drugged. Those rigs tend not to calculate 
the proper dosage for their body mass. The same goes 
for the dwarfs and their resilient physiologies. If you are 
extracting a troll or a dwarf and are using the cheaper 
model, you may need to set it up to double up on the 
sedatives, which will cut in half the amount of time 
you can use the machine to keep them under before 
a refill is needed. Or simply eliminate the possibility of 
them waking up early by using the one with the medkit 
computer. A medkit computer is better at compensating 
for a troll’s or a dwarf’s physiology. Just keep this in mind 
so you don’t find yourself in a situation where your target 
is trying to kill you in your sleep or ends up trying to rabbit 
on you because you used the wrong machine.
>	
Butch
VEHICLES, GEAR,  
AND DRONES
In regards to the bounties I collect on bug spirits, 
I often have very little need to be subtle. I can go in 
with flamethrowers or guns blazing, kicking in doors 
and setting things on fire until they die. That’s what’s 
nice about bug spirits setting up their nests or hives in 
out-of-the-way places. But there are many occasions 
where circumstances call for runners to operate with a 
lot more grace and subtlety than what I usually do for 
successful extractions, especially in urban settings or in 
high-security areas. So what happens if a runner team 
needs to extract someone from a pricey and secure 
apartment high rise with lots of security? In a way that 
won’t also bring down the full force of Knight Errant 
upon their heads when things go sideways? 
One potential way to do it is for a runner team to 
spoof a call going out from the high rise to DocWag-
on. They could then pose as a DocWagon team and can 
pretend to be responding to that emergency call. With 
appropriate-looking gear, such as uniforms, medkits 
and a gurney, a team can convince the front desk per-
sonnel they are indeed DocWagon medics. When the 
front desk confirms a call had gone out to DocWagon, 
the front desk will likely admit the team into the build-
ing with no further objections to treat “the patient.” 
Once inside, the team would have almost unfettered 
access to the rest of building and can simply walk up to 
the right apartment where they can find a way to sur-
prise and render their target unconscious without dis-
turbing the neighbors. The team could then wheel the 
now-unconscious target out on their gurney through 
the front doors as if he was a regular DocWagon patient 
requiring medical attention. As an added precaution, 
an extraction team might wish to slap on a counterfeit 
DocWagon wristband. This trick could easily work or be 
modified if the team needs to dress up as Knight Errant/
Lone Star cops, corp security, UCAS federal agents, or 
any other agency that is expected and has the authority 
to remove people from various properties, willingly or 
not.  Going into a place under the color of authority can 
make for an easy extraction. 
One of the biggest troubles runners have is with the 
uniforms they are required to wear for their disguise and 
cover story. The details about the uniforms should be 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT    173


===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 176 =====
exactly right to avoid tipping people off. There are fixers 
out there that specialize in acquiring uniforms for such 
jobs (usually fenced to them by runners following suc-
cessful runs when they picked this stuff up) and selling 
them to runners. Your fixer may be one of them, or if not, 
he likely knows someone else who deals in these dis-
guises. Get to know one of these fixers because they can 
do a lot for you. A truly talented disguise fixer will know 
precisely what gear you will need to sell the disguise 
(everything from the actual medical bags and kits that 
DocWagon medics use and carry around with them to 
the proper, authorized body armor and restraints used 
by Lone Star officers). They will know which uniforms 
wear chevrons and how many years of service each 
chevron depicts. They will understand the rank system 
that many medical and law enforcement professionals 
use, and can tell you how many chevrons your uniform 
needs if you are trying to pull off the look of a Knight 
Errant Lieutenant (at least three chevrons, BTW). They 
will be able to tell you how decorations are meant to be 
worn, and more importantly, in which order. For those 
that don’t know, Knight Errant officers wear their decora-
tions over their badges when they are in their uniforms, 
but not when they are in their full body armor. 
These fixers can also provide authentic badges for 
you to wear on these uniforms. Many law enforcement 
agencies and corporations still rely on metal badges as a 
time-honored tradition, though properly encrypted AROs 
are more common. Either element—the badge or the ID 
ARO—cannot be simply duplicated by a fashion spell. 
Most people won’t bother copying the badge number. 
They have been conditioned by the megacorporations 
over the years to blindly accept authority in all forms. 
So even if the badge was taken off a cop that had been 
killed in the line of duty, it should be sufficient to give you 
the time to get the job done (provided you don’t pass an 
observant cop in the hallway leading to your destination 
who happens to recognize the number). 
Knowing the dress codes for each organization is 
another essential, which any good fixer who specializes 
in these disguises will know. Knight Errant, for example, 
has started a new policy of requiring its beat cops to 
have cyberware with the synthetic coverings installed. 
So, if you’re pretending to be a Knight Errant cop and 
you have chrome showing, that could be a big tipoff that 
you aren’t who you say you are. Lone Star requires its 
cops to cover up all tattoos and body modifications. This 
is the information the right fixer can give you.
>	
If you go into a situation dressed as cop, chances are 
you’ll need to pretend to be at the location executing a 
warrant, either a search or an arrest warrant. And when 
you say that, the people you’re trying to convince will ask 
to see those documents. These documents can be pretty 
complicated with lots of legalese, and it’s best if you 
rely on the services of a high-quality forger to give you 
an error-free document to make your cover story work. 
Quality forgers can run as much as five hundred nuyen 
per document and up, depending on the complexity of 
the document and any security features that have to be 
duplicated. But that is money well spent if it helps you to 
get into places successfully. So don’t forget to have these 
documents with you, lest you end up with egg on your 
face for overlooking such an important detail. 
>	
DangerSensei
>	
Doing that may not always work. Some targets have 
diplomatic immunity, so law-enforcement corps such as 
Knight Errant, Lone Star, and government agencies cannot 
enforce a warrant on the target. And if they happen to 
reside in a place that has extraterritorial protection, saying 
you’re going to snag a target with a warrant from outside 
that particular corporation will obviously be challenged. 
Always do your research first on the target if you attempt 
this sort of extraction. And be sure to make sure such an 
extraction is even possible.  
>	
Thorn
 
If you have your disguises taken care of, the next 
thing you’ll need is a vehicle. Vehicles, like ambulanc-
es, not only help sell a cover story—they also provide 
convenient transportation for your unwilling target. 
Stealing an emergency or official vehicle, especially 
if it is a patrol cruiser or an ambulance, is not the best 
way to go. As soon as it is reported stolen, Knight Errant 
or Lone Star are immediately put on the lookout for it. 
And unfortunately, patrol cruisers and ambulances are 
designed to stick out from the crowd (not to mention 
the fact that you have to worry about deactivating all 
the anti-theft and tracking devices that are equipped on 
such vehicles so that you aren’t found within a few min-
utes of the theft). A decker worth their street rep may 
be able to “borrow” an ambulance or emergency vehicle 
for a short period of time, but sometimes a job doesn’t 
give you the luxury of time to be able to hack records to 
acquire an authentic ambulance or police cruiser. Some-
times you need to react immediately to the job at hand. 
And even if they have the time, most extraction teams 
don’t want to go this route because it adds more com-
plications. This is why many dedicated extraction teams 
acquire legal, civilian vehicles that can be converted to 
look exactly like an ambulance or police cruiser (or other 
official-looking vehicle). They then acquire the services 
of a quality rigger who can make needed modifica-
tions to the vehicle. In creating the counterfeit vehicle, 
some riggers will make all the physical customizations 
and then add chameleon coating to create the perfect 
paint job for the vehicle. This expensive coating is either 
programmed to respond to the environment and proj-
ect coloration that helps conceal the vehicle, or it can 
be programmed to display vibrant patterns of the users’ 
choosing (which is very popular with car enthusiasts), in-
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
174    EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT >>


===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 177 =====
cluding the paint jobs for any number of police cruisers 
or ambulances.
Other, more old-school riggers scoff at the notion 
of using chameleon coating and insist on going for the 
traditional paint job. Not only are some of these riggers 
afraid that a complicated system like chameleon coating 
could fail during a critical part of the run, but they feel 
that it does a half-assed job. Many old-fashioned riggers 
feel that painting a vehicle is a crucial part of their job 
(and some feel that it is a form of art on their part) and 
not something to be left up to spellslingers or comput-
er programs. Plus, they argue that chameleon coating is 
much more traceable than normal automobile paint. I 
have never seen chameleon coating fail during a run, but 
I tend to agree with the old-school riggers that chame-
leon coating is much more traceable than normal auto-
mobile paint, and you could be courting disaster if you’re 
not careful about how you procure it. Law-enforcement 
agencies know just how useful chameleon coating can 
be for the runner community, which is why they keep 
close tabs on any buyers and sellers they can find. 
No matter how you decide to modify your vehicle, 
you’ll need extensive and lengthy modifications to the 
chassis, including false panels and welding, emergen-
cy light bars, new headlights and bumpers, and so on, 
to create an exact duplicate of an emergency vehicle. 
This takes time and needs to be factored into any plans 
for an extraction job. The upside of creating a counter-
feit vehicle in this way is that if the run is successful, a 
runner team can simply store this vehicle in a garage or 
other inconspicuous location so it can be reused in the 
future. I know extraction teams that have garages filled 
with counterfeit emergency vehicles, including govern-
ment-issued black SUVs, DocWagon and CrashCart am-
bulances, Knight Errant and Lone Star patrol cruisers, KE 
and LS aerial drones, and an array of various corp secu-
rity vehicles. Some of the more brazen and experienced 
extraction teams doctor up counterfeit patrol and coast 
guard boats, and even full-on helicopters. Of course, 
those teams are the ones that have been established for 
years and have perfected their trade. And they are the 
ones that demand top nuyen for their services. 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT    175


===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 178 =====
Before going to your rigger to have a counterfeit 
emergency vehicle created, you have to be able to bring 
him the right model of vehicle to work with. Not all emer-
gency vehicles use a similar chassis. For example, Lone 
Star generally likes to use the Chrysler-Nissan Patrol-1 
cruiser for their beat cops. Knight Errant likes the Honda 
3100, a vehicle produced by their own subsidiary. Now, 
I suppose you can bring to a rigger a vehicle that looks 
like a Nissan-Patrol-1 and ask them to make it look like 
KE’s Honda 3100, but chances are they’ll just laugh at 
you. Modifying a dissimilar vehicle like that will make it 
way too easy for bystander to tell that it’s not an official 
police cruiser. The closer the match you have to the Nis-
san-Patrol-1 or the Honda 3100, the better counterfeit 
vehicle you’ll have. For Lone Star patrol cars, the Chrys-
ler-Nissan Journey is a very close match to the law-en-
forcement vehicle. With the right paint job and with the 
right modifications, it will easily pass inspection. For the 
Honda 3100, the Honda Artemis is the recommended 
vehicle when creating a duplicate of the KE patrol car. 
The two most prominent providers, DocWagon and 
CrashCart, also use dissimilar chassis for their ambulanc-
es. If your team is looking to emulate the DocWagon 
SRT, the best choice is the GMC Endurance van, while 
CrashCart utilizes the MuBoNA Rettungswagen. To 
properly build a CrashCart ambulance, many extraction 
runners recommend you should use the Saeder-Krupp 
LT-21 delivery van. Unfortunately, even though the LT-
21 is perhaps the closest model to the Rettungswagen, 
the LT-21 still has many dissimilarities that requires a fair-
ly lengthy amount of modifications to make the disguise 
work, so you could be waiting up to a couple of days for 
your rigger to make all the necessary changes.
Some runners prefer going in looking like govern-
ment officials, such as the UCAS FBI or members of 
the CAS DDI (Department of Domestic Investigation). 
Government officials still believe in sticking to the tra-
ditional mode of transportation for their agents; black 
SUVs modified with emergency light bars and dash bars. 
These vehicles don’t require too many cosmetic mod-
ifications to make them look official. The UCAS has a 
contract with Ares to be supplied with GMC Sidewind-
ers for their government agents. These workhorses are 
readily available on the market and are easy for riggers 
to modify. CAS government officials tend to use Esprit 
Industries Watcher SUVs. These vehicles also are readily 
available on the market and can be easily modified in a 
couple hours’ time.
Of course, there are other vehicles that are good 
aids for extraction jobs. If you need to fake someone’s 
death, you can have your rigger adapt your van to mim-
ic a coroner’s van. Give your target a dose of slab, put 
him or her in a body bag (with hidden oxygen tanks, 
natch), strap them to a gurney, and walk them out as if 
they were a corpse. A moving truck can be an excellent 
choice if you are extracting an entire family. I know one 
extraction team tagged their target’s house with RFID 
tags and AROs that showed them to be selling their 
house (without the targets’ knowledge of course). They 
left it tagged like that for a week (only turning it off when 
the family either returned home or left for the day, when 
they might inadvertently discover the tags) so that the 
neighbors would think they were moving somewhere 
else. Then on the day the runners were going to make 
their move (no pun intended), they turned all the tags 
to read as “sold,” and had arranged for their “moving 
truck” to arrive at the house. The extraction team quietly 
took down the entire family and packaged them inside a 
few moving boxes. Since the neighbors all saw the tags 
suggesting the property was up for sell and now it was 
showing as having been “sold,” they didn’t think of any-
thing being amiss when the runners moved all the furni-
ture (and the family) out (including the vehicles). After 
the run, the runners were ballsy enough to even sell all 
the nice furniture and the vehicles from the house, mak-
ing for a very nice side profit in the process. 
Delivery trucks can also be used to gain access to 
locations and people, although drones are making deliv-
ery trucks a rare sight these days. Even armored limou-
sines used in affluent neighborhoods could be used to 
help extract a target. With the right access codes show-
ing the armored limousine has extraterritorial rights, not 
even Knight Errant or Lone Star could touch the limou-
sine. If a security checkpoint has been set up looking for 
the target but you’re in a vehicle identified as belonging 
to Mitsuhama, chances are you can literally drive right 
by it without being inspected. Most security person-
nel would not even think twice about stopping it due 
to the sacrosanct rules involving extraterritorial rights 
being drilled into the rent-a-cops’ heads (and all the 
headaches that would follow if they should dare to vio-
late those sacred rules and end up being in the wrong). 
Dump trucks can also help runners. Properly modified, 
dump trucks can hold entire families (if necessary), and 
most security personnel would rather allow a garbage 
truck to pass unhindered instead of going through the 
trouble of inspecting it and getting their uniforms dirty 
(unless they have clear cause to suspect a dump truck 
was used in the extraction job). Garbage trucks come 
in one of two chassis designs; one that is wide and de-
signed for large streets, and another that’s narrow and 
sleeker, giving the truck a lot more agility and capability 
to maneuver in tight corners. A commonly used dump 
truck is the Dodge Ram Industrial.
>	
One thing that Sticks doesn’t mention is that most riggers 
do not have emergency light bars or sirens lying around 
in their garages. Possessing them is a felony in most 
jurisdictions that carries a jail sentence of up to two to 
four years. Most riggers require their clients to provide 
that gear if they want their vehicles modified with them. 
Riggers that keep emergency light bars and sirens in stock 
keep them safely away from their main garage in case 
they are ever raided by the cops. So if you buy them from 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
176    EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT >>


===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 187 =====
ADEPT POWERS
Spellslingers are not the only way to get magic in on 
your extraction efforts. Adepts have a few useful tools 
and powers at their disposal as well. Like the following. 
 
COMMANDING VOICE
With this power, an adept can give a target a five-word 
command. With magical energies empowering their 
words, an adept with this ability can compel a target 
to do almost anything, including dropping a weapon, 
walking out of a building, getting into a car, or remain-
ing silent while another team member renders the 
target unconscious. Adepts have said that this ability 
can only be used on a single target a limited number 
of times within a twenty-four hour period or else they 
grow resistant to it, but all it takes is one action the ad-
ept stops or alters to make a difference in a run. This 
power, if used properly, can minimize opportunities for 
things to go wrong and minimize any violence that may 
be required to grab the target.
LIGHT TOUCH
Adepts in the extraction business often find they re-
quire the palming skill, either to lift items from a tar-
get for access reasons (e.g., commlinks or key cards) 
or subtly dose them with a contact drug. Light Touch 
allows the adept to make the attempt, but to do so with 
such a graceful motion that it becomes extraordinarily 
difficult for most metahumans to perceive that some-
one has made contact with them until it is too late. This 
adept power is often used in conjunction with the Nim-
ble Fingers adept power (see below).    
MIMIC
To get to a target for extraction, many teams have to rely 
on breaking-and-entering tools to bypass security mea-
sures to get them in. These tools often include cellular 
glove molders and cybereyes with the retinal duplication 
modification. Adepts with this power can mimic the func-
tions of those technical devices. An adept with this pow-
er needs to touch the subject that will be providing the 
print patterns; they can then use their magic to shift their 
retinal patterns, fingerprints, and palm prints into copies 
of the subject’s prints. They need to maintain contact a 
decent amount of uninterrupted contact with the target; 
the longer the contact, the better quality their copies will 
be. The adept then has a limited amount of time to gain 
access to the area where the subject is and extract them 
before their print patterns revert to their natural state. 
This power saves runners the need to spend time making 
a fake print with a glove, and gives runner teams the op-
tion of choosing different print patterns for access. This 
comes in handy if an alarm is sounded and the print they 
have been using becomes disabled.
NERVE STRIKE
Extraction teams normally bring about paralysis in a 
target by drugging them. Adepts can do the same thing 
by knowing precisely where to hit the target and ap-
plying precisely the right amount of force to key nerve 
clusters. The advantage of relying on adepts with the 
Nerve Strike power is that you do not have to worry 
about transporting or smuggling illicit drugs on your 
person to dose a target with. An adept’s fists will serve 
the same purpose, and no one will be the wiser until 
the actual extraction attempt goes down. 
NIMBLE FINGERS
The Nimble Fingers adept power improves the dex-
terity of the adept’s digits, allowing them to perform 
astounding sleight-of-hand feats without being no-
ticed. In conjunction with Light Touch, Nimble Fingers 
can make the adept a perfect weapon in an extraction 
team’s arsenal—or turn them into a frightening assassin 
if the job calls for it.
EXTRACTION DEVICES
DEVICE
AVAILABILITY
COST
Houdini Machine I (commlink and biomonitor) (does not include cost of drugs)
12F
8,500¥
Houdini Machine II (medkit computer) (does not include cost of drugs)
12F
12,000¥
Ambulance gurney
8
2,000¥
Body bag
6
50¥
Fake DocWagon wrist band
10F
100¥
Stimtouch hosiery
6R
250¥
Laced lipstick
10F
Special
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT    185


===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 188 =====
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
DISGUISES
DISGUISE
AVAILABILITY
COST
Uniforms
16F
2,000-15,000¥
Fixer services
—
250¥ per hour
Forger services
—
500¥+
FACTORY VEHICLES AND THEIR SPECIALIZED USES
VEHICLE
SPECIALIZED USE
Ares Roadmaster (transport)
Counterfeit SWAT vehicle/Urban Command Center
Chrysler-Nissan Journey (car)
Counterfeit Lone Star patrol cruiser
Conestoga Trailblazer
Counterfeit moving truck
Dodge Ram Industrial
Garbage truck
Esprit Industries Watcher (SUV)
Counterfeit CAS government vehicle
GMC Endurance (van)
Counterfeit DocWagon ambulance
GMC Sidewinder (SUV)
Counterfeit UCAS government vehicle
Honda Artemis (car)
Counterfeit Knight Errant patrol cruiser
S-K LT-21 (delivery van)
Counterfeit CrashCart ambulance
VEHICLE MODIFICATIONS
MODIFICATION
AVAILABILITY
COST
Chameleon coating
12R
Body x 2,000¥
Dash light bar
15F
3,500¥
Emergency light bar
15F
5,000¥
Morphing license plate
8F
1,000¥
Siren
15F
1,400¥
Smuggling compartment (dwarf, human, elf, or ork)
12F
3,500¥
Smuggling compartment (troll)
12F
7,000¥
Spoof chips
8F
500¥
Rigger services
—
500¥ per hour
186    EXTRACTOR’S TOOLKIT >>
DRUGS (PER DOSE)
DRUG
AVAILABILITY
COST
Caldwell lily extract
10R
600¥
Caldwell lily extract, concentrated
12R
1,000¥
Chloral hydrate
6R
50¥
Chloroform
4R
75¥
DMSO
5R
50¥
Gamma-scopolamine
14F
200¥
Läel
10F
400¥
Laés
12F
750¥
Liquid nutrients
4R
75¥
Narcoject
8R
50¥
Normal saline
—
30¥
Slab
8R
250¥


===== stolensouls.pdf PDF page 198 =====
196    STOLEN SOULS TABLES >>
STOLEN SOULS STATS
EXTRACTION DEVICES
AVAILABILITY
COST
Houdini Machine I (commlink and biomonitor)
12F
8,500¥
(does not include cost of drugs)
Houdini Machine II (medkit computer)
12F
12,000¥
(does not include cost of drugs)
Ambulance gurney
8
2,000¥
Body bag
6
50¥
Fake DocWagon wrist band
10F
100¥
Stimtouch hosiery
6R
250¥
Laced lipstick
10F
Special
DISGUISES
AVAILABILITY
COST
Uniforms
16F
2,000-15,000¥
Fixer services
—
250¥/hr
Forger services
—
500¥+
FACTORY VEHICLE
SPECIALIZED USE
Ares Roadmaster (transport)
Counterfeit SWAT vehicle/Urban Command Center
Chrysler-Nissan Journey (car)
Counterfeit Lone Star Patrol Cruiser
Conestoga Trailblazer
Counterfeit moving truck
Dodge Ram Industrial
Garbage truck
Esprit Industries Watcher (SUV)
Counterfeit CAS government vehicle
GMC Endurance (van)
Counterfeit DocWagon ambulance
GMC Sidewinder (SUV)
Counterfeit UCAS government vehicle
Honda Artemis (car)
Counterfeit Knight Errant Patrol Cruiser
S-K LT-21 (delivery van)
Counterfeit CrashCart ambulance
MODIFICATION
AVAILABILITY
COST
Chameleon coating
12R
Body x 2,000¥
Dash light bar
15F
3,500¥
Emergency light bar
15F
5,000¥
Morphing license plate
8F
1,000¥
Siren
15F
1,400¥
Smuggling compartment (dwarf, human, elf, or ork)
12F
3,500¥
Smuggling compartment (troll)
12F
7,000¥
Spoof chips
8F
500¥
Rigger services
—
500¥/hr
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS
DAMAGE
AP
REACH
MODE
AVAIL
COST
Stimtouch hosiery
8S(e)
–5
0
—
6R
250¥
Laced lipstick
(as drug)
—
—
—
10F
(Drug + DMSO cost) + 
50¥
