

===== chromeflesh.pdf PDF page 147 =====
ESSENCE COSTS
Nanoware does not carry an Essence cost, nor does it 
currently come in grades. Nanocybernetic augmenta-
tions, however, as specialized cybernetics, do carry an 
Essence cost. 
USING NANOWARE
While nanotech sees myriad applications, nanoware 
is the term for nanotech implanted in living organ-
isms as a form of enhancement. What sets nanoware 
apart from other forms of enhancement is the role of 
nanotech itself. The most common type of nanoware 
consists of free-floating nanite colonies designed to 
supplement or replace a body’s physiological systems, 
to enhance metabolic processes, or to act as a prophy-
lactic measure. To this end, nanoware circulates via the 
blood, lymph, and extra-cellular fluids to reach all parts 
of the body. Other types of nanoware install them-
selves in the vicinity of a particular organ to either en-
hance organ functions or build and maintain ultra-fine 
nanostructures. Various types of neural nanoware, fil-
tration systems, and organ enhancements fall into this 
category, and what distinguishes them from cyberware 
is the need for active nanite colonies.
Nanoware uses either hard machines delivered using 
an aerosol or injection or soft machines delivered via in-
jection or ingestion vectors to make precise adjustments 
to biological systems. Once introduced, nanites become 
active in about a minute. Nanoware systems are consid-
ered to be always active unless a nanohive implant is 
present. Among other functions, nanohives allow for 
controlled activation of nanoware systems or colonies, 
recovering them, and storing them during 
“downtime.” Another defining aspect 
of nanoware is that it’s not usually 
permanent. Despite modern tech-
niques that provide nanites with 
protein-matched 
immune 
markers to stave off the 
worst, a living body is 
still an incredibly hostile environment to the little guys, 
and sooner or later nanites are flushed or absorbed by 
the system.
NANOWARE RATINGS  
AND DEGRADATION
All nanoware has a Rating that represents that specific 
nanite colony’s hardiness, versatility, and level of per-
formance—whether it is used in “bladeless surgery,” 
cyberware implantation, antidote treatment, or as a 
form of enhancement or stimulant. Nanoware systems 
are transient in nature, meaning they are purged in due 
course by the body’s filtration, digestive, and immune 
processes. To represent this transient nature, the Rat-
ings of nanoware systems permanently degrade over 
time, at the rate of 1 Rating point per week. A func-
tioning nanohive (p. 151) counters this nanite loss by 
providing a safe environment for replenishing feed-
stocks and colony numbers—regardless of whether the 
system involves hard or soft machines.
Active nanoware in the organism also suffers degra-
dation when the body takes serious wounds—bleeding 
out or straying into contact with foreign bodies or phys-
iological systems that they aren’t designed to tolerate. 
For every 3 boxes of Physical damage taken by the host, 
reduce the Rating of any active nanoware systems by 1. 
This loss can be recovered over time with a nanohive.
When a nanoware system’s Rating reaches 0, it is de-
stroyed. A nanohive can still replenish the system nor-
mally.
The nanoware in a CFD sufferer does not degrade, 
instead finding other ways to remain active.
DETECTING SOFT NANITES
The threshold to detect soft nanites via na-
no-scanner or clinical tests is increased by +2 
(see Nanoscanner, p. 153). They are pow-
ered by natural organic processes 
and function much like bacteria 
or parasites, and for the 
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
146    HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE >>


===== chromeflesh.pdf PDF page 148 =====
most part appear just like their natural counterparts, 
making them much harder to detect.
REPROGRAMMING  
HARD NANITES
One of the advantages offered only by hard nanites 
is the ability to reprogram hard nanite systems. Hard 
nanites are reprogrammed through the body’s own 
conductive tissues by a hard nanohive.
When hard nanites are reprogrammed, they change 
their type, becoming a new kind of hard nanoware. Re-
programming itself requires the hard nanites to suspend 
whatever operation they were performing and receive 
their new instructions. A hard nanohive does not reduce 
the Rating of its nanites.
HARD NANITES AND THE 
MATRIX
Hard nanites use conductive tissue and other surfaces 
and UV radiation to communicate. They do not use the 
Matrix, and so they do not show up as icons in the Ma-
trix. Hard nanites can be indirectly affected by hackers via 
a hard nanohive, a devices that has its own Matrix icon.
NANOWARE 
SYSTEMS
HARD NANOWARE 
SYSTEMS
The following are the nanoware systems on the mar-
ket that are certified against CFD infection.
ANTI-RAD
Popular among spacers and workers in high-ambi-
ent radiation environments such as the SOX, anti-rad 
nanoware is a new development and quite expensive. 
This free-floating system scours the body via the lym-
phatic system for telltale isotope traces, free radicals, 
and radiation damaged cells. Anti-rad nanites bind 
contaminants in a solvent cage and inject damaged or 
mutated cells with a compound that induces cell death. 
The anti-rad nanites then attach to the waste and trans-
port it to the nearest lymph node to be processed and 
evacuated normally.
Anti-rad nanoware reduces the Power of radiation 
damage by its Rating. Anti-rad is intended as a prophy-
lactic measure and is unable to eliminate metastasized 
cancers or pre-existing cell mutations.
CONTROL RIG BOOSTER
This specialized breed of neural amplifier nanites 
are designed to complement implanted control rigs 
(p. 452, SR5). The nanites organize themselves into 
artificial neural pathways, building and maintaining 
a network of nanofilaments. This extends the nor-
mal interface between the control rig and the mid-
dle brain to parts of the dorsolateral prefrontal cor-
tex, cerebellum, and thalamus—areas of the brain 
that manage subconscious movement, sensory in-
terpretation, and instinctive decision-making. The 
booster colony’s dedicated neural pathways allow 
a rigger to make greater use of the brain’s intuitive 
understanding of spatial positioning and capacity 
for instinctive motion control when jumped in to 
a vehicle or drone. The control rig itself translates 
the resulting neural impulses into rigging data like 
speed control, inertia handling, and so forth.
The booster applies its Rating as a dice pool modifier 
to your Vehicle Tests when you’re jumped into a drone 
or vehicle. It cannot be combined with the control rig 
optimization genetech.
IMPLANT MEDIC
This nanoware system is installed along with a specific 
cyberware implant. The free-floating nanites in this sys-
tem are designed to monitor the health and well-being 
of that implant, and to immediately act to repair it if any 
malfunction or damage occurs. If the nanites detect a 
problem, they work to restore the implant to its stan-
dard operating parameters by rejoining neural connec-
tions, sealing fractures, repairing circuitry, removing 
foreign bodies or damaged tissue, and so on.
An implant medic system automatically seeks to re-
pair a damaged implant. If an implant takes Matrix dam-
age, this system begins repairing it on the next Combat 
Turn, using its Rating x 2 as its Hardware + Logic dice 
pool and its Rating as its Mental limit. You can read more 
on repairing Matrix damage on p. 228, SR5.
NANITE HUNTERS
Nanite hunters seek out and destroy active nanites 
other than their own colony. By default, hunter nanites 
seek out all nanites, but they can be reprogrammed by 
the usual method for hard nanites to target nanites of 
a specific type (hard, soft, or a specific system). Repro-
gramming nanite hunters in this way never reduces the 
system’s rating.
At the end of each Combat Turn that a nanite hunt-
er system is active, make a Rating x 2 [Rating] v. Tar-
get’s Rating x 2 Test. For each net hit the hunters get, 
reduce the target nanites’ Rating by 1. The hard nanite 
hunters have a hard time targeting soft nanites, taking 
a –2 dice pool modifier when attacking them. If more 
than one valid target is available to the nanite hunters, 
the system chooses its target at random each Combat 
Turn.
Hunter nanites are unable to breach a nanohive to 
attack dormant nanite systems.
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
<< HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE    147


===== chromeflesh.pdf PDF page 149 =====
MARKERS
These nanites are sealed microscopic optical chips 
used for transporting valuable data without being de-
tected. Data is typically divided up and downloaded 
into multiple nanites, building in redundancy against 
nanite loss. Later, a simple blood sample is all that is 
needed to collect enough datacapsules to reconsti-
tute the data within. Markers are designed to defeat 
nanoscanners: reduce the nanoscanner’s dice pool by 
the marker’s Rating for the Detection test. Markers can 
carry one or multiple files.
NANOTATTOOS
Once injected, nanotattoo hard machines embed them-
selves as a lattice of liquid crystal microdisplays under 
the subject’s skin. A Rating 1 nanotattoo covers one limb 
or the face, Rating 2 covers half the body, and Rating 3 
covers the whole body. A nanotattoo (or “nanotat”) can 
be reprogrammed to display any image the user wishes, 
including preprogrammed animation. They can also be 
programmed to be inactive and appear indistinguish-
able from your normal skin. Reprogramming nanotats in 
this manner does not reduce its rating.
Nanotattoos can provide effective camouflage, if 
you have a full body treatment and you’re not wearing 
much, imposing a –1 dice pool modifier to Perception 
tests to detect you visually.
TAGGANTS
Unlike most nanites, taggants emit a signal that can be 
detected by a standard wireless device. This produces 
an ARO and icon in the Matrix. Taggants can be used 
to advertise the subject’s criminal convictions or legal 
status, commercial goods, political propaganda, or 
any other information programmed into the system. 
Taggants can have their icon and the information they 
broadcast changed via reprogramming—such repro-
gramming does not reduce the taggants’ rating.
TRAUMA CONTROL SYSTEM
This nanoware system seeks out and gathers around 
vital organs. Some component nanites apply elec-
tro-stimulation to the heart and respiratory muscles, 
while others regulate blood flow away from wounds 
without starving the brain of oxygen. While you’re busy 
dying from overflow damage to your Physical Condi-
tion Monitor, the TCS attempts to stabilize you every 
minute, using its Rating in place of both First Aid and 
Logic in the Stabilization Test (p. 209, SR5).
REPLICATORS
Nanoware has some disadvantages. It only has 
one function, or maybe one function at a time if you’re 
reprogramming hard nanites. It can lose its potency over time. 
It’s very expensive to buy and upkeep. But there’s one kind of 
nanite that can perform multiple roles, actually gains strength 
as it works, and best of all it’s free of charge: REPLICATORS!
Replicators are only found in CFD victims … all CFD 
victims. These nanites have been altered by the virus to let 
them build nanites of other types. They can construct both soft 
and hard nanites given sufficient raw materials, which they will 
happily take out of the victim’s food, blood, or body. The virus 
camouflages them as other types of nanites to conceal them 
and prevent detection, but the mechanism for this is unknown, 
and there still isn’t a way to detect them … until it’s too late.
So if you want a powerful nanoware system at absolutely 
no cost, contact your nearest head case and join the unknown 
but secretly growing multitudes who use replicators! Your new 
personality will thank you for it!
HARD NANOWARE SYSTEMS
NANOWARE
RATING
AVAILABILITY
COST
Anti-rad
1–6
14F
Rating x 6,000¥
Control rig booster
1–3
12F
Rating x 6,000¥
Implant medic
1–6
12F
10% of implant cost
Nanite hunters
1–6
16R
Rating x 5,000¥
Markers
1–3
12
Rating x 2,000¥
Nanotattoos
1–3
12F
Rating x 1,000¥
Taggants
1–3
12
Rating x 600¥
Trauma control system
1–6
12F
Rating x 4,000¥
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
148    HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE >>


===== chromeflesh.pdf PDF page 154 =====
the surroundings, providing a –2 dice pool modifier to 
Perception Tests to spot the camouflaged character if 
they’re not wearing much.
Newprint: This upgrade allows the user to repro-
gram his finger- or palm-prints, just like dynamic hand-
print nanocybernetics (p. 151).
Sealer: The sealant upgrade repairs its own tears and 
punctures. Since it perfectly follows body contours, it 
also serves as an effective pressure dressing. This adds 
a +2 dice pool modifier on tests to stabilize the wear-
er, but imparts a –2 dice pool modifier on First Aid and 
Medicine tests to treat the character until it is removed. 
Shifter: The shifter upgrade cannot cause gross 
changes in body shape, but it can alter facial features 
and skin textures. Club goers and artists sometimes 
use this to give themselves a scaly or “engraved” sur-
face texture, but runners find it to be a useful form of 
disguise. Users can change a shifter configuration via 
wireless, but the altskin takes ten minutes to take on the 
requested configuration. Shifter altskin gives you +1 to 
the limit of Disguise and Impersonation Tests. 
ETCHERS
Etchers are used to temporarily or permanently inscribe 
a metallic pattern on the subject’s bones or cartilages. 
These marks can be detected by magnetic anomaly 
detectors (MADs) and magnetic resonance imagers 
(MRIs). Temporary bone markings break up over time, 
but permanent treatments can only be removed with 
surgery that scrapes the bone clean. Once injected, 
a bone marker takes eight hours to form. Etchers are 
used to identify prisoners, mark bioware, carry infor-
mation, among other purposes.
MONOWIRE
Superfine monofilament wire, constructed using nano-
tech buckytubes, sees a wide variety of uses but is best 
known for its security applications. Nearly invisible and 
with high tensile strength, monowire can be stretched 
atop fences as hi-tech barbed wire or in a maze pattern 
across doorways and hallways. Monowire garrotes (p. 
20, Run & Gun), carried in a special wrist-worn contain-
er with a pull-tab at one end, are also common among 
assassins. To detect monowire when extended and taut 
requires a Perception + Intuition [Mental] (3) Test.
NANOPASTE DISGUISE
The use of cheap cosmetics and latex-based disguis-
es are a thing of the past with the development of a 
versatile biostatic nanite paste. Once spread across the 
affected area, the paste utilizes the body’s bioelectric 
charge to power itself. It can be programmed to change 
color and texture or to display patterns. The paste can 
also remember preset configurations. A small contain-
er of paste covers the user’s face and hands, while the 
large container coats the entire body. A person’s face 
can be duplicated if you have a scan or a trid image—
use your or someone else’s Medicine or Artisan skill in 
a Teamwork Test for your Disguise test. The nanopaste 
disguise lasts for twenty-four hours before the nanites 
self-destruct.
NANOSCANNER
Nanoware can be very difficult to detect. Cyberware 
scanners may sometimes detect extensive nanoware, 
but a dedicated nano-scanner that can test blood, sali-
va, tissue, or other materials for nanites is required for 
positive identification in most cases. Once limited to 
medical and high-security facilities due to cost, it has 
become common to issue these devices to emergency 
response teams in order to identify CFD victims. This 
function can be installed in any sensor device like other 
sensor functions (p. 445, SR5). The range of this sensor 
is one meter. The threshold for detecting nanoware can 
be found on the Nanotech Detection table. A test must 
be made for each system.
NANOSPY
These nanites provide a discreet, flexible surveillance 
option to deploy in unsecured sites. Once sprayed or 
painted upon a surface (one application), a layer of 
hard machines constructs an invisible antenna, a dis-
tributed microphone, and a compound optical lens. 
The entire assembly is about thirty centimeters square 
and appears to be no more than a very faint discolor-
ation of the material it’s been applied to. Noticing an 
application by sight is a Perception + Intuition [Mental] 
(3) Test. NanoSpies can even be applied like makeup 
to living creatures, turning a face into a camera. Imag-
ing software corrects distortions caused by the surface 
area and compound lens. A single application lasts for 
NANOTECH DETECTION
TYPE OF NANOWARE
DETECTION THRESHOLD
Nanocybernetics
Standard
1
Alphaware
2
Betaware
3
Deltaware
4
Nanoware
Hard
2
Soft
3
CFD Replicators
5
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
<< HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE    153


===== chromeflesh.pdf PDF page 155 =====
twenty-four hours. Nanospies are capable of effective-
ly monitoring events within five meters. Beyond that, 
image and sound distortion makes capture unfeasible.
SAVIOR MEDKIT
Originally developed by Shiawase Biotech but now 
available from several corps, these advanced medkits 
combine cutting-edge nanotech and advanced expert 
systems. When activated, the medkit injects enough 
nanites to last five minutes into its subject. The sav-
ior then acts as a Rating 6 medkit and follows all the 
normal rules for medkits (p. 450, SR5). If the patient is 
bleeding out, the savior’s nanites act as a trauma con-
trol system (p. 148) for the duration. The savior’s sup-
ply of nanites is limited, and it must be restocked every 
time it is used.
SMART CORROSIVES
This system consists of a swarm of nanites suspended 
in a clear chemical solution. Each nanite carries a pay-
load of a corrosive compound. When applied, these 
nanites are programmed to bind to a certain substance 
and use the corrosive to melt it. Because the nanites 
only activate when in contact with the target sub-
stance, the corrosive is applied in a manner that affects 
only the target, while everything around it remains un-
touched. Smart corrosive solutions can be applied via 
squirtguns, spray canisters, splash grenades, and a va-
riety of other methods. Each solution is configured to 
corrode only a specific substance, from skin to metal to 
plasteel—the corrosive carried by the nanites will affect 
only that substance. On contact, smart corrosives deal 
10P(acid) damage to the substance it is programmed 
to affect. It must be washed or scraped off to prevent 
continuing damage.
UNIVERSAL SEALANT
This nanotech application is used extensively in space 
and undersea habitats and is becoming increasing 
common in a number of fields. It employs nanites sus-
pended in a polymer gel/foam that hardens upon con-
tact with air. When deployed (normally via handheld 
spray or squirtgun), the nanites bind seams, fracture 
NANOGEAR
NANOGEAR
RATING
ESSENCE
CAPACITY
Altskin (per application)
Hard
10
1,250¥
     Armor
—
+3
+500¥
     Chameleon
—
+2
+250¥
     Newprint
—
+4F
+(Rating x 200¥)
     Sealer
—
+1
+250¥
     Shifter
—
+2
+250¥
Etchers
Hard
8
500¥
Monowire (per meter)
Hard
14R
1,000¥
Nanopaste disguise
     Small container
Hard
12F
350¥
     Large container 
Hard
16F
700¥
Nanoscanner
—
8
As sensor
NanoSpy (per application)
Hard
14F
10,000¥
Savior medkit
—
6
2,000¥
Savior medkit supplies
Hard
4
300¥
Smart corrosives (per 
application)
Soft
10R
4,000¥
Universal sealant (per 
application)
Hard
10
250¥
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
154    HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE >>
