

===== PDF page 147 =====
ESSENCE COSTS
Nanoware does not carry an Essence cost, nor does it 
currently come in grades. Nanocybernetic augmenta-
tions, however, as specialized cybernetics, do carry an 
Essence cost. 
USING NANOWARE
While nanotech sees myriad applications, nanoware 
is the term for nanotech implanted in living organ-
isms as a form of enhancement. What sets nanoware 
apart from other forms of enhancement is the role of 
nanotech itself. The most common type of nanoware 
consists of free-floating nanite colonies designed to 
supplement or replace a body’s physiological systems, 
to enhance metabolic processes, or to act as a prophy-
lactic measure. To this end, nanoware circulates via the 
blood, lymph, and extra-cellular fluids to reach all parts 
of the body. Other types of nanoware install them-
selves in the vicinity of a particular organ to either en-
hance organ functions or build and maintain ultra-fine 
nanostructures. Various types of neural nanoware, fil-
tration systems, and organ enhancements fall into this 
category, and what distinguishes them from cyberware 
is the need for active nanite colonies.
Nanoware uses either hard machines delivered using 
an aerosol or injection or soft machines delivered via in-
jection or ingestion vectors to make precise adjustments 
to biological systems. Once introduced, nanites become 
active in about a minute. Nanoware systems are consid-
ered to be always active unless a nanohive implant is 
present. Among other functions, nanohives allow for 
controlled activation of nanoware systems or colonies, 
recovering them, and storing them during 
“downtime.” Another defining aspect 
of nanoware is that it’s not usually 
permanent. Despite modern tech-
niques that provide nanites with 
protein-matched 
immune 
markers to stave off the 
worst, a living body is 
still an incredibly hostile environment to the little guys, 
and sooner or later nanites are flushed or absorbed by 
the system.
NANOWARE RATINGS  
AND DEGRADATION
All nanoware has a Rating that represents that specific 
nanite colony’s hardiness, versatility, and level of per-
formance—whether it is used in “bladeless surgery,” 
cyberware implantation, antidote treatment, or as a 
form of enhancement or stimulant. Nanoware systems 
are transient in nature, meaning they are purged in due 
course by the body’s filtration, digestive, and immune 
processes. To represent this transient nature, the Rat-
ings of nanoware systems permanently degrade over 
time, at the rate of 1 Rating point per week. A func-
tioning nanohive (p. 151) counters this nanite loss by 
providing a safe environment for replenishing feed-
stocks and colony numbers—regardless of whether the 
system involves hard or soft machines.
Active nanoware in the organism also suffers degra-
dation when the body takes serious wounds—bleeding 
out or straying into contact with foreign bodies or phys-
iological systems that they aren’t designed to tolerate. 
For every 3 boxes of Physical damage taken by the host, 
reduce the Rating of any active nanoware systems by 1. 
This loss can be recovered over time with a nanohive.
When a nanoware system’s Rating reaches 0, it is de-
stroyed. A nanohive can still replenish the system nor-
mally.
The nanoware in a CFD sufferer does not degrade, 
instead finding other ways to remain active.
DETECTING SOFT NANITES
The threshold to detect soft nanites via na-
no-scanner or clinical tests is increased by +2 
(see Nanoscanner, p. 153). They are pow-
ered by natural organic processes 
and function much like bacteria 
or parasites, and for the 
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
146    HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE >>


===== PDF page 148 =====
most part appear just like their natural counterparts, 
making them much harder to detect.
REPROGRAMMING  
HARD NANITES
One of the advantages offered only by hard nanites 
is the ability to reprogram hard nanite systems. Hard 
nanites are reprogrammed through the body’s own 
conductive tissues by a hard nanohive.
When hard nanites are reprogrammed, they change 
their type, becoming a new kind of hard nanoware. Re-
programming itself requires the hard nanites to suspend 
whatever operation they were performing and receive 
their new instructions. A hard nanohive does not reduce 
the Rating of its nanites.
HARD NANITES AND THE 
MATRIX
Hard nanites use conductive tissue and other surfaces 
and UV radiation to communicate. They do not use the 
Matrix, and so they do not show up as icons in the Ma-
trix. Hard nanites can be indirectly affected by hackers via 
a hard nanohive, a devices that has its own Matrix icon.
NANOWARE 
SYSTEMS
HARD NANOWARE 
SYSTEMS
The following are the nanoware systems on the mar-
ket that are certified against CFD infection.
ANTI-RAD
Popular among spacers and workers in high-ambi-
ent radiation environments such as the SOX, anti-rad 
nanoware is a new development and quite expensive. 
This free-floating system scours the body via the lym-
phatic system for telltale isotope traces, free radicals, 
and radiation damaged cells. Anti-rad nanites bind 
contaminants in a solvent cage and inject damaged or 
mutated cells with a compound that induces cell death. 
The anti-rad nanites then attach to the waste and trans-
port it to the nearest lymph node to be processed and 
evacuated normally.
Anti-rad nanoware reduces the Power of radiation 
damage by its Rating. Anti-rad is intended as a prophy-
lactic measure and is unable to eliminate metastasized 
cancers or pre-existing cell mutations.
CONTROL RIG BOOSTER
This specialized breed of neural amplifier nanites 
are designed to complement implanted control rigs 
(p. 452, SR5). The nanites organize themselves into 
artificial neural pathways, building and maintaining 
a network of nanofilaments. This extends the nor-
mal interface between the control rig and the mid-
dle brain to parts of the dorsolateral prefrontal cor-
tex, cerebellum, and thalamus—areas of the brain 
that manage subconscious movement, sensory in-
terpretation, and instinctive decision-making. The 
booster colony’s dedicated neural pathways allow 
a rigger to make greater use of the brain’s intuitive 
understanding of spatial positioning and capacity 
for instinctive motion control when jumped in to 
a vehicle or drone. The control rig itself translates 
the resulting neural impulses into rigging data like 
speed control, inertia handling, and so forth.
The booster applies its Rating as a dice pool modifier 
to your Vehicle Tests when you’re jumped into a drone 
or vehicle. It cannot be combined with the control rig 
optimization genetech.
IMPLANT MEDIC
This nanoware system is installed along with a specific 
cyberware implant. The free-floating nanites in this sys-
tem are designed to monitor the health and well-being 
of that implant, and to immediately act to repair it if any 
malfunction or damage occurs. If the nanites detect a 
problem, they work to restore the implant to its stan-
dard operating parameters by rejoining neural connec-
tions, sealing fractures, repairing circuitry, removing 
foreign bodies or damaged tissue, and so on.
An implant medic system automatically seeks to re-
pair a damaged implant. If an implant takes Matrix dam-
age, this system begins repairing it on the next Combat 
Turn, using its Rating x 2 as its Hardware + Logic dice 
pool and its Rating as its Mental limit. You can read more 
on repairing Matrix damage on p. 228, SR5.
NANITE HUNTERS
Nanite hunters seek out and destroy active nanites 
other than their own colony. By default, hunter nanites 
seek out all nanites, but they can be reprogrammed by 
the usual method for hard nanites to target nanites of 
a specific type (hard, soft, or a specific system). Repro-
gramming nanite hunters in this way never reduces the 
system’s rating.
At the end of each Combat Turn that a nanite hunt-
er system is active, make a Rating x 2 [Rating] v. Tar-
get’s Rating x 2 Test. For each net hit the hunters get, 
reduce the target nanites’ Rating by 1. The hard nanite 
hunters have a hard time targeting soft nanites, taking 
a –2 dice pool modifier when attacking them. If more 
than one valid target is available to the nanite hunters, 
the system chooses its target at random each Combat 
Turn.
Hunter nanites are unable to breach a nanohive to 
attack dormant nanite systems.
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
<< HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE    147


===== PDF page 149 =====
MARKERS
These nanites are sealed microscopic optical chips 
used for transporting valuable data without being de-
tected. Data is typically divided up and downloaded 
into multiple nanites, building in redundancy against 
nanite loss. Later, a simple blood sample is all that is 
needed to collect enough datacapsules to reconsti-
tute the data within. Markers are designed to defeat 
nanoscanners: reduce the nanoscanner’s dice pool by 
the marker’s Rating for the Detection test. Markers can 
carry one or multiple files.
NANOTATTOOS
Once injected, nanotattoo hard machines embed them-
selves as a lattice of liquid crystal microdisplays under 
the subject’s skin. A Rating 1 nanotattoo covers one limb 
or the face, Rating 2 covers half the body, and Rating 3 
covers the whole body. A nanotattoo (or “nanotat”) can 
be reprogrammed to display any image the user wishes, 
including preprogrammed animation. They can also be 
programmed to be inactive and appear indistinguish-
able from your normal skin. Reprogramming nanotats in 
this manner does not reduce its rating.
Nanotattoos can provide effective camouflage, if 
you have a full body treatment and you’re not wearing 
much, imposing a –1 dice pool modifier to Perception 
tests to detect you visually.
TAGGANTS
Unlike most nanites, taggants emit a signal that can be 
detected by a standard wireless device. This produces 
an ARO and icon in the Matrix. Taggants can be used 
to advertise the subject’s criminal convictions or legal 
status, commercial goods, political propaganda, or 
any other information programmed into the system. 
Taggants can have their icon and the information they 
broadcast changed via reprogramming—such repro-
gramming does not reduce the taggants’ rating.
TRAUMA CONTROL SYSTEM
This nanoware system seeks out and gathers around 
vital organs. Some component nanites apply elec-
tro-stimulation to the heart and respiratory muscles, 
while others regulate blood flow away from wounds 
without starving the brain of oxygen. While you’re busy 
dying from overflow damage to your Physical Condi-
tion Monitor, the TCS attempts to stabilize you every 
minute, using its Rating in place of both First Aid and 
Logic in the Stabilization Test (p. 209, SR5).
REPLICATORS
Nanoware has some disadvantages. It only has 
one function, or maybe one function at a time if you’re 
reprogramming hard nanites. It can lose its potency over time. 
It’s very expensive to buy and upkeep. But there’s one kind of 
nanite that can perform multiple roles, actually gains strength 
as it works, and best of all it’s free of charge: REPLICATORS!
Replicators are only found in CFD victims … all CFD 
victims. These nanites have been altered by the virus to let 
them build nanites of other types. They can construct both soft 
and hard nanites given sufficient raw materials, which they will 
happily take out of the victim’s food, blood, or body. The virus 
camouflages them as other types of nanites to conceal them 
and prevent detection, but the mechanism for this is unknown, 
and there still isn’t a way to detect them … until it’s too late.
So if you want a powerful nanoware system at absolutely 
no cost, contact your nearest head case and join the unknown 
but secretly growing multitudes who use replicators! Your new 
personality will thank you for it!
HARD NANOWARE SYSTEMS
NANOWARE
RATING
AVAILABILITY
COST
Anti-rad
1–6
14F
Rating x 6,000¥
Control rig booster
1–3
12F
Rating x 6,000¥
Implant medic
1–6
12F
10% of implant cost
Nanite hunters
1–6
16R
Rating x 5,000¥
Markers
1–3
12
Rating x 2,000¥
Nanotattoos
1–3
12F
Rating x 1,000¥
Taggants
1–3
12
Rating x 600¥
Trauma control system
1–6
12F
Rating x 4,000¥
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
148    HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE >>


===== PDF page 150 =====
SOFT NANOWARE 
SYSTEMS
ANTI-TOX
These nantidotes are designed to counter a broad spec-
trum of toxins. They carry active charcoal, tannic acid, 
magnesium, and other chemicals to absorb toxins from 
the digestive tract and bloodstream, and also enhance 
the body’s natural detoxification processes. Reduce 
the Power of any toxin affecting you by the nanoware’s 
Rating. If the toxin’s Power is reduced below 1, further 
effects and/or damage are halted.
Anti-tox will also protect against the effects of alco-
hol, caffeine, and other drugs. Reduce the duration of 
drugs by a factor equal to the Rating of the anti-tox sys-
tem (i.e., divide the duration by the rating).
CARCERAND-PLUS
Carcerand-plus is the nanotech version of carcerands, 
hollow molecular spheres designed to carry a drug pay-
load that they slowly dispense as they circulate the body 
and break down over time. Normal carcerands are pas-
sive, designed to break down within a narrow period.
Carcerand-plus triggers under either of two condi-
tions. It can be tailored to respond to a certain chemical 
in the body, such as a certain food or drug, introduced 
from outside the body; the trigger condition must be 
specified before the nanites are installed. It is also 
triggered if its Rating is reduced to 0. Once triggered, 
carcerand-plus nanites release their payload into the 
bloodstream.
Once injected, carcerand-plus colonies circulate 
through the body until the trigger condition is met or they 
are purged. Carcerand-plus nanoware contains the equiv-
alent of one dose of a compound. The requisite dose 
of compound must be bought and paid for separately. 
Carcerand-plus cannot be supported by a soft nanohive.
NANOSYMBIOTES
Nanosymbiotes are colonies of specialized nanites that 
permeate the user’s anatomy. Once they have fully de-
ployed, they adopt specialized functions appropriate to 
their location. These are all focused on returning the subject 
to a healthy physiological baseline. Nanosymbiotes adjust 
body chemistry, assist cell formation, and even mimic cer-
tain cell functions themselves, acting to speed clotting and 
healing. Functioning nanosymbiotes allow the user to heal 
and recover from wounds faster. Add the nanosymbiotes’ 
Rating to your dice pool when making tests to heal dam-
age through natural recovery (p. 207, SR5).
NANTIDOTES
Nantidotes are hollow nanites that float in the user’s 
bloodstream and carry a specific toxin’s antidote inside 
an outer membrane. When a nanite comes into con-
tact with the predefined toxin or compound, this out-
er membrane automatically dissolves or cycles open, 
administering the antidote at the poisoned site. Nan-
tidotes affect only one type of toxin or venom, cho-
sen when the nanites are created. If the nantidotes are 
already present in the body, their effect is instanta-
neous—they provide complete immunity, and the toxin 
has no effect. Every time a dose of toxin is neutralized. 
reduce the nantidote’s Rating by 1 point; if the Rating 
is reduced to 0, the nantidotes can offer no more pro-
tection. This Rating degradation may be restored by a 
nanohive normally.
NEURAL AMPLIFIERS
This form of neural nanoware has been in development 
since the very first days of the datajack. Nanotechnol-
ogy has finally developed to the point where scientists 
can foray deeper into the brain and central nervous sys-
tem without excessive risks. Neural amplifiers use soft 
nanites to manufacture artificial neurons and expand 
neural pathways between specific parts of the brain’s 
or body’s neural network. After growing the expand-
ed neural architecture, the dedicated nanite colony 
falls into a support role, electrochemically stimulating 
the newly formed pathways—a process that emulates 
natural reinforcement of neural pathways in the brain 
through learning, practice, and experience. Each type 
of neural amplifier targets specific neuron tracts, en-
hances glial cell functions (in the brain), and increases 
axon density and width with superconductive nanofil-
aments sheathed with nu-myelin (a transgenic protein 
that reduces interference with neural impulses and 
neurotransmitter “signal degradation”). Neural amplifi-
ers create a significant increase in specific brain func-
tions and response time.
Only two neural amplifiers can function at peak ef-
ficiency per subject, after which point the additional 
neural traffic becomes increasingly distracting and con-
fusing. If you have more than two neural amplifiers at 
a time, you take a –2 dice pool modifier to all actions 
related to each system.
Learning Stimulus: These neural amplifiers facilitate 
comprehension and memorization of skills the charac-
ter already possesses by enhancing the brain’s ability 
to cross-reference learned skill memories and the lan-
guage comprehension functions of the parietal-tem-
poral-occipital complex. When raising a Knowledge 
or Language skill the character already possesses, this 
nanoware reduces the Karma cost by 1 for each Rating 
point, to a minimum of 2 Karma.
Limbic: Limbic neural amplifiers rewire parts of the 
limbic system to areas of the parietal, temporal, and oc-
cipital lobes that produce cohesive sensory perceptions 
(from neural sensory stimuli). This system grants a +1 
dice pool modifier and increases the Mental limit by its 
Rating when using Intuition-linked skills.
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
<< HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE    149


===== PDF page 151 =====
Neocortical: Neocortical neural amplifiers enhance 
frontal lobe activity, which is essential to a metahu-
man’s abstract thought processes and problem-solv-
ing ability. When using Logic-linked skills, this implant 
grants a +1 dice pool modifier and a Mental limit bonus 
equal to its Rating.
Recall: Recall neural amplifiers enhance sensory 
memory storage and recall by ensuring neural path-
ways to stored memories are reinforced and do not 
fall into disuse. Recall grants a dice pool modifier 
equal to its Rating to any Memory Tests (p. 152, SR5) 
to remember facts, events, or other information the 
character has directly experienced and concentrated 
on memorizing.
O-CELLS
O-cells, or Omega cells, function as enhanced lym-
phocytes (white blood cells) integrated into the body’s 
auto-immune system. O-cells are gene-modified and 
augmented from T- and B-cells, which are part of the 
body’s adaptive immune system. These natural cell 
types retain a record of previous infections so that they 
can mount a quicker and stronger response to the cul-
prit antigen(s) or pathogen in cases of re-infection. Un-
like natural lymphocytes, which only store memories of 
previous infections (or inoculations), O-cell soft nanites 
come equipped with broad-spectrum pharmacologi-
cal microdoses and an inbuilt library of responses to 
a wide array of common pathogens. O-cell nanoware 
reduces the Power of any viral or bacterial pathogens 
that infect the host by its Rating.
OXYRUSH
Oxyrush nanites store blood oxygen and release it to 
maintain healthy blood-oxygen levels, like super-effi-
cient red blood cells. A character with this nanoware 
can hold his breath for a half-hour for every Rating 
point. Additionally, oxyrush also adds its Rating to the 
character’s dice pool on any Fatigue Tests.
NANOCYBERNETICS
Nanocybernetics bridge the gap between nanoware 
systems and ordinary cybernetics. What makes them 
unique and different from standard cyberware aug-
mentation is that working nanocolonies are an inte-
gral, and in fact essential, part of the implant. Nano-
cybernetics can and do perform a wide variety of 
functions. Some, such as the nanohive, are necessary 
for free-floating nanites to exist within a metahuman 
body. Others use nanites as ultrafine sensors to mon-
itor the body’s health. Unlike nanoware, all nanocy-
bernetics are permanent and non-degrading implants 
despite using active nanite colonies. The implant it-
self normally contains feedstocks and limited storage 
during downtimes. All are cyberware (p. 451, SR5) 
and follow the basic cyberware rules. All have an Es-
sence cost and are available in all standard cyberware 
grades. Some nanocybernetics can be installed within 
cyberlimbs; these have Capacity costs listed in their 
descriptions.
HARD NANOWARE SYSTEMS
NANOWARE
RATING
AVAILABILITY
COST
Anti-tox
1-9
16F
Rating x 5,000¥
Carcerand plus
1-6
10F
Rating x 3,000¥ (+ drug)
Nanosymbiotes
1-3
16F
Rating x 6,000¥
Nantidotes
1-6
8F
Rating x 1,500¥
Nanotattoos
1-3
12F
Rating x 500¥
Neural amplifiers
Learning stimulus
1-3
14F
Rating x 5,000¥
Limbic
1-3
16F
Rating x 7,500¥
Neocortical
1-3
16F
Rating x 7,500¥
Recall
1-3
12F
Rating x 3,500¥
O-Cells
1-9
12F
Rating x 5,000¥
Oxyrush
1-5
12F
Rating x 1,500¥
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
150    HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE >>
