==== PDF 173 ====
ing straight for the elevators. Grover felt sorry for the 
man who was about to get ambushed by NYPD, but he 
didnÆt want to get involved. He didnÆt want to get ac-
cused of obstructing justice. He just wanted to go home 
to his family in Queens and be done with this day. Gro-
ver watched from his office as Collins calmly boarded 
the elevator, looking weary after what appeared to be 
a full day of work. The middle-aged man rode it up to 
the fifth floor. Grover didnÆt really want to watch, but 
eventually opened an AR screen with security camera 
footage from the hallway leading to CollinsÆ apartment. 
He knew as a civic-minded person, he should record as 
much of the encounter as possible, in case it was even-
tually needed as evidence. He turned the sensitivity on 
the cameraÆs microphone up to its maximum setting to 
get as much of the audio of the encounter as possible. 
A few moments later, Grover watched Collins disappear 
into his apartment.
ôWho the fuck are you guys?ö demanded the 
now-disembodied voice.
ôNYPD, Inc. WeÆre here to execute a search warrant.ö
ôThe hell you are.ö 
Suddenly two muffled shots rang out. 
ôOh crap.ö Grover shot up from his chair and raced 
to the elevator. By the time he reached the fifth floor, a 
small crowd had gathered outside the apartment. Both 
Burke and Williams were outside the apartment, busy 
working to disperse the crowd, telling everyone there 
was no need to call for emergency services, as NYPD, 
Inc. were already on site.
ôWhat happened? I didnÆt think there would be any 
violence,ö Grover shouted, as he stormed passed the 
onlookers. Looking into the apartment for himself, he 
saw Collins lying on the ground near the doorway, un-
conscious and in handcuffs. The apartment looked like it 
had been thoroughly searched.  
ôWhen he entered the premise, we announced who 
we were, but Mr. Collins pulled out a pistol. We respond-
ed with non-lethal force. Mr. Collins is sedated but fine. 
Furthermore, he did not get a shot off, so there was no 
damage done to your property,ö stated Detective Burke. 
ôAll right. I suppose I should call DocWagon then. His 
file says he has a contract with them.ö
ôNo.ö
ôExcuse me?ö
ôWe need to transport him in a few minutes. It is cru-
cial for our case to get him back to the station and start 
interrogating him before word spreads of his capture 
and his accomplices can flee our jurisdiction. We will 
provide him medical care back at the station. You donÆt 
need to be worried about that.ö
ôThis is damn irregular. And arenÆt you going to be 
writing up a report about all this? Or collecting security 
camera footage? YouÆre just going to run off with him?ö
ôListen. We found what we were looking for inside 
CollinsÆ apartment,ö Burke replied. He held up three 
clear evidence bags, one containing four commlinks, a 
second containing nearly a dozen optical chips and the 
third containing what likely was CollinsÆ pistol. ôThe com-
mlinks and the optical chips make this an open-and-shut 
case for us. We have the suspectÆs weapon. And Detec-
tive WilliamsÆ cybereyes recorded the entire assault. We 
may have to come back for follow-up interviews and get 
that footage, but right now, we must think about build-
ing the case against his co-conspirators. Now, thereÆs 
something we need you to do.ö
ôWhatÆs that?ö
ôWe would like to take Mr. Collins through the emer-
gency exit of this building. WeÆre already having our car 
brought around for us. If you could disable the fire alarm 
on that door, we can be out of your hair and allow you to 
return to regular work.ö 
ôWhy do you want to use the emergency exit?ö
ôDo you really want us to be carrying a handcuffed 
suspect out through the front doors, in view of many 
more of your residents and possibly to everyone else 
who lives around here? Do you really want Thorn-
wood Apartments to get that kind of reputation? Going 
through the alleyway would be far more discreet.ö
Grover grumbled, but agreed. ôI see your point. 
Thanks for that.ö The troll, Detective Williams, gathered 
up the unconscious resident and threw him over his 
shoulder. Both detectives headed to the stairwell lead-
ing down to the emergency exit. Grover tapped a button 
on his AR displays, disarming the alarm. ôItÆs down. ItÆll 
be off for a minute to allow you to get him to your car.ö 
ôThank you for your cooperation.ö The two quickly 
disappeared into the stairwell.
<< EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT    171


==== PDF 174 ====
Grover closed the apartment door and changed the 
code. He could not get over the fact that these two cops 
were egregiously violating Mr. CollinsÆ civil rights. And 
the way they were acting, they seemed to have been 
carrying out a very haphazard investigation. 
After thinking it over for a few more moments, Grover 
decided to pursue the detectives. He opened the door 
and called to the detectives, who had already reached 
the bottom landing and were on their way to the emer-
gency exit. ôDetectives! I still think you did a half-assed 
job here, and I donÆt like the fact that you wouldnÆt let me 
call DocWagon. I want the name and commcode of your 
supervisor so I can file a complaint.ö
ôOf course. Here it is,ö replied Burke pleasantly. He 
immediately sent the contact information to GroverÆs 
commlink. ôOur captain is Barney Miller of the twelfth 
precinct. HeÆll tell you exactly what weÆve already told 
you.ö The stairwell door closed shut behind the detec-
tives. They were gone.
Grover immediately called the commcode, getting a 
queasy feeling in his stomach. In all the years he has had 
interactions with cops as a leasing manager, he has nev-
er seen one so willing to give up the name and contact 
information of their supervisor. And the fact that the elf 
was doing all the talking? Something was indeed wrong. 
GroverÆs fears were suddenly validated when a record-
ing came on to answer.
ôWeÆre sorry. The commcode you have dialed has 
been disconnected or is no longer in service. Please 
check the number and try your call again.ö
GETTING THEM OUT
POSTED BY: STICKS
As many of you know, I am a bounty hunter. For some 
very personal reasons, I usually only go after bug spir-
its. I pick up a bounty, find the target, and exterminate 
it. This way, I donÆt have to worry about taking my tar-
gets alive or moving them; all I have to worry about is 
proof of death (or in a spiritÆs case, disruption). Howev-
er, sometimes out of necessity (and the need for nuy-
en) I occasionally take on certain targets of opportu-
nity, usually targets near my current location that have 
high payouts. Unfortunately, some of those side jobs 
have to be taken alive. What follows are tools that have 
proven most useful to me when I  take on such jobs. 
Whether youÆre looking to pull off just one job to ex-
tract an unwilling target safely and conveniently or are 
looking to specialize in extractions, these are tools you 
may wish to consider. They may allow for your job(s) to 
go a lot smoother with fewer complications. And really, 
who doesnÆt want a run that isnÆt easier and allows all 
your chummers to return home to either their families 
or to the hard-earned nuyen they wish to enjoy?  Have 
a look, and if something strikes your fancy, IÆm sure 
your fixer will know of a way to acquire it for you. 
THE HOUDINI MACHINE
DonÆt look for a corporate-designed version of this 
device on the market. There isnÆt one, since there isnÆt 
much market demand for something this specialized. 
This device only has one purpose: to make people 
disappear. The Houdini machine was first cobbled to-
gether by some nameless runners a few years ago and 
currently can be found on the black market with only a 
little digging. 
The machine is made up of two auto-injectors. They 
are not implanted. Rather, these versions have been spe-
cially modified to act as intravenous drip machines that 
can be strapped onto each arm of the subject. Each one 
has the extra dose modification, giving the machine six 
doses of any substance of your choosing. One of the au-
to-injectors is typically loaded with drugs to sedate and 
keep the unwilling subject of an extraction unconscious. 
This way you donÆt have to worry about a target that will 
continually resist you and undermine you at every turn. 
The other auto-injector is typically equipped with sa-
line solution and special liquid nutrients to keep the sub-
ject hydrated and healthy over a lengthy period of time, 
keeping them in a condition desirable for Mr. Johnson. 
This part of the Houdini machine is invaluable, especially 
if you canÆt drop the target off right away of if you have 
to lay low for any given amount of time with the subject. 
This device can keep the subject unconscious  for days if 
necessary, without the need to refill the auto-injectors. 
There are two versions of this Houdini machine. The 
cheaper (and much cruder) version has the two auto-in-
jectors subscribed to a commlink and a biomonitor. The 
commlink has special programming installed on it, and 
coupled with the biomonitor, can inject the drugs or 
nutrients when the biomonitor prompts it to do so. This 
lessens the need for constant (and tedious) monitoring 
by shadowrunners who are carrying out the extraction. 
With this version, a majority of metahumans will remain 
unconscious for up to two days before the auto-injectors 
need refilling. The second version is tied into a medkit 
computer. The advantage of this version is that a med-
kit computer is much more efficient with managing and 
dispensing drugs, as well as selecting the right dosag-
es and nutrient levels for the subject. Using the Houdi-
ni machine version with the medkit computer, you can 
keep a subject unconscious for up to three days before 
having to refill the auto-injectors, as opposed to the two 
days with the other machine. 
Unfortunately, there is one downside to using the 
Houdini machine. The saline and the drugs can be 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
172    EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT >>


==== PDF 175 ====
pumped directly into the veins of the subject (which can 
be handled by simple first-aid techniques), but the liq-
uid nutrients cannot. They have to be pumped into the 
stomach of the subject. So if you are using liquid nutri-
ents, you or your team need either to run a line through 
the subjectÆs nose using a nasogastric (NG) tube, or you 
will have to create a temporary shunt between the au-
to-injector and the stomach (which the auto-injector is 
capable of handling). Either way, first-aid knowledge 
alone isnÆt going to cut it. YouÆll need someone with at 
least some formal medical training to fully implement 
this function. Most of the runners I know get by just 
keeping the target hydrated, so thatÆs always an option 
if you donÆt have an actual medic in your group to set 
up the auto-injectors for administering liquid nutrients. 
>	
Why should I even bother with this when I have a mage 
in my party who can do the exact same thing with her 
magic? Seems like a waste of money to me.
>	
Treadle
>	
I knew someone was going to ask me that. Why dedicate 
your magician to sustaining spells just to keep your 
prisoner/target unconscious, or why dedicate them 
to keeping them nourished, when you can let this 
machine do the work for them? You may need their focus 
elsewhere, especially if something goes wrong and you 
need to go into combat. Plus, this machine doesnÆt get 
tired like magicians do. Your mage will eventually have to 
fall asleep. Even if they are able to use sustaining focuses 
to transfer the spells onto them to keep the person out 
or nourished, you still have the problem of having active 
foci and active spells that could draw unwanted astral 
attention. IÆm not saying going the magical route couldnÆt 
be done. All IÆm saying is this way is potentially simpler. 
Plus, this is a viable option for teams that donÆt have 
magicians. Not all runner teams have magic as an option. 
Contrary to popular belief, magic is still pretty rare, even 
in the shadows.  
>	
Sticks
>	
Also, no auras to worry about with this thing.
>	
Mika
>	
Even though IÆve heard good things about the Houdini 
machine, I also know trolls and dwarfs can be problematic 
for the version using only the commlink and the 
biomonitor. Trolls, because of their body mass, have a 
chance of regaining consciousness even if they are being 
perpetually drugged. Those rigs tend not to calculate 
the proper dosage for their body mass. The same goes 
for the dwarfs and their resilient physiologies. If you are 
extracting a troll or a dwarf and are using the cheaper 
model, you may need to set it up to double up on the 
sedatives, which will cut in half the amount of time 
you can use the machine to keep them under before 
a refill is needed. Or simply eliminate the possibility of 
them waking up early by using the one with the medkit 
computer. A medkit computer is better at compensating 
for a trollÆs or a dwarfÆs physiology. Just keep this in mind 
so you donÆt find yourself in a situation where your target 
is trying to kill you in your sleep or ends up trying to rabbit 
on you because you used the wrong machine.
>	
Butch
VEHICLES, GEAR,  
AND DRONES
In regards to the bounties I collect on bug spirits, 
I often have very little need to be subtle. I can go in 
with flamethrowers or guns blazing, kicking in doors 
and setting things on fire until they die. ThatÆs whatÆs 
nice about bug spirits setting up their nests or hives in 
out-of-the-way places. But there are many occasions 
where circumstances call for runners to operate with a 
lot more grace and subtlety than what I usually do for 
successful extractions, especially in urban settings or in 
high-security areas. So what happens if a runner team 
needs to extract someone from a pricey and secure 
apartment high rise with lots of security? In a way that 
wonÆt also bring down the full force of Knight Errant 
upon their heads when things go sideways? 
One potential way to do it is for a runner team to 
spoof a call going out from the high rise to DocWag-
on. They could then pose as a DocWagon team and can 
pretend to be responding to that emergency call. With 
appropriate-looking gear, such as uniforms, medkits 
and a gurney, a team can convince the front desk per-
sonnel they are indeed DocWagon medics. When the 
front desk confirms a call had gone out to DocWagon, 
the front desk will likely admit the team into the build-
ing with no further objections to treat ôthe patient.ö 
Once inside, the team would have almost unfettered 
access to the rest of building and can simply walk up to 
the right apartment where they can find a way to sur-
prise and render their target unconscious without dis-
turbing the neighbors. The team could then wheel the 
now-unconscious target out on their gurney through 
the front doors as if he was a regular DocWagon patient 
requiring medical attention. As an added precaution, 
an extraction team might wish to slap on a counterfeit 
DocWagon wristband. This trick could easily work or be 
modified if the team needs to dress up as Knight Errant/
Lone Star cops, corp security, UCAS federal agents, or 
any other agency that is expected and has the authority 
to remove people from various properties, willingly or 
not.  Going into a place under the color of authority can 
make for an easy extraction. 
One of the biggest troubles runners have is with the 
uniforms they are required to wear for their disguise and 
cover story. The details about the uniforms should be 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT    173


==== PDF 176 ====
exactly right to avoid tipping people off. There are fixers 
out there that specialize in acquiring uniforms for such 
jobs (usually fenced to them by runners following suc-
cessful runs when they picked this stuff up) and selling 
them to runners. Your fixer may be one of them, or if not, 
he likely knows someone else who deals in these dis-
guises. Get to know one of these fixers because they can 
do a lot for you. A truly talented disguise fixer will know 
precisely what gear you will need to sell the disguise 
(everything from the actual medical bags and kits that 
DocWagon medics use and carry around with them to 
the proper, authorized body armor and restraints used 
by Lone Star officers). They will know which uniforms 
wear chevrons and how many years of service each 
chevron depicts. They will understand the rank system 
that many medical and law enforcement professionals 
use, and can tell you how many chevrons your uniform 
needs if you are trying to pull off the look of a Knight 
Errant Lieutenant (at least three chevrons, BTW). They 
will be able to tell you how decorations are meant to be 
worn, and more importantly, in which order. For those 
that donÆt know, Knight Errant officers wear their decora-
tions over their badges when they are in their uniforms, 
but not when they are in their full body armor. 
These fixers can also provide authentic badges for 
you to wear on these uniforms. Many law enforcement 
agencies and corporations still rely on metal badges as a 
time-honored tradition, though properly encrypted AROs 
are more common. Either elementùthe badge or the ID 
AROùcannot be simply duplicated by a fashion spell. 
Most people wonÆt bother copying the badge number. 
They have been conditioned by the megacorporations 
over the years to blindly accept authority in all forms. 
So even if the badge was taken off a cop that had been 
killed in the line of duty, it should be sufficient to give you 
the time to get the job done (provided you donÆt pass an 
observant cop in the hallway leading to your destination 
who happens to recognize the number). 
Knowing the dress codes for each organization is 
another essential, which any good fixer who specializes 
in these disguises will know. Knight Errant, for example, 
has started a new policy of requiring its beat cops to 
have cyberware with the synthetic coverings installed. 
So, if youÆre pretending to be a Knight Errant cop and 
you have chrome showing, that could be a big tipoff that 
you arenÆt who you say you are. Lone Star requires its 
cops to cover up all tattoos and body modifications. This 
is the information the right fixer can give you.
>	
If you go into a situation dressed as cop, chances are 
youÆll need to pretend to be at the location executing a 
warrant, either a search or an arrest warrant. And when 
you say that, the people youÆre trying to convince will ask 
to see those documents. These documents can be pretty 
complicated with lots of legalese, and itÆs best if you 
rely on the services of a high-quality forger to give you 
an error-free document to make your cover story work. 
Quality forgers can run as much as five hundred nuyen 
per document and up, depending on the complexity of 
the document and any security features that have to be 
duplicated. But that is money well spent if it helps you to 
get into places successfully. So donÆt forget to have these 
documents with you, lest you end up with egg on your 
face for overlooking such an important detail. 
>	
DangerSensei
>	
Doing that may not always work. Some targets have 
diplomatic immunity, so law-enforcement corps such as 
Knight Errant, Lone Star, and government agencies cannot 
enforce a warrant on the target. And if they happen to 
reside in a place that has extraterritorial protection, saying 
youÆre going to snag a target with a warrant from outside 
that particular corporation will obviously be challenged. 
Always do your research first on the target if you attempt 
this sort of extraction. And be sure to make sure such an 
extraction is even possible.  
>	
Thorn
 
If you have your disguises taken care of, the next 
thing youÆll need is a vehicle. Vehicles, like ambulanc-
es, not only help sell a cover storyùthey also provide 
convenient transportation for your unwilling target. 
Stealing an emergency or official vehicle, especially 
if it is a patrol cruiser or an ambulance, is not the best 
way to go. As soon as it is reported stolen, Knight Errant 
or Lone Star are immediately put on the lookout for it. 
And unfortunately, patrol cruisers and ambulances are 
designed to stick out from the crowd (not to mention 
the fact that you have to worry about deactivating all 
the anti-theft and tracking devices that are equipped on 
such vehicles so that you arenÆt found within a few min-
utes of the theft). A decker worth their street rep may 
be able to ôborrowö an ambulance or emergency vehicle 
for a short period of time, but sometimes a job doesnÆt 
give you the luxury of time to be able to hack records to 
acquire an authentic ambulance or police cruiser. Some-
times you need to react immediately to the job at hand. 
And even if they have the time, most extraction teams 
donÆt want to go this route because it adds more com-
plications. This is why many dedicated extraction teams 
acquire legal, civilian vehicles that can be converted to 
look exactly like an ambulance or police cruiser (or other 
official-looking vehicle). They then acquire the services 
of a quality rigger who can make needed modifica-
tions to the vehicle. In creating the counterfeit vehicle, 
some riggers will make all the physical customizations 
and then add chameleon coating to create the perfect 
paint job for the vehicle. This expensive coating is either 
programmed to respond to the environment and proj-
ect coloration that helps conceal the vehicle, or it can 
be programmed to display vibrant patterns of the usersÆ 
choosing (which is very popular with car enthusiasts), in-
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
174    EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT >>


==== PDF 177 ====
cluding the paint jobs for any number of police cruisers 
or ambulances.
Other, more old-school riggers scoff at the notion 
of using chameleon coating and insist on going for the 
traditional paint job. Not only are some of these riggers 
afraid that a complicated system like chameleon coating 
could fail during a critical part of the run, but they feel 
that it does a half-assed job. Many old-fashioned riggers 
feel that painting a vehicle is a crucial part of their job 
(and some feel that it is a form of art on their part) and 
not something to be left up to spellslingers or comput-
er programs. Plus, they argue that chameleon coating is 
much more traceable than normal automobile paint. I 
have never seen chameleon coating fail during a run, but 
I tend to agree with the old-school riggers that chame-
leon coating is much more traceable than normal auto-
mobile paint, and you could be courting disaster if youÆre 
not careful about how you procure it. Law-enforcement 
agencies know just how useful chameleon coating can 
be for the runner community, which is why they keep 
close tabs on any buyers and sellers they can find. 
No matter how you decide to modify your vehicle, 
youÆll need extensive and lengthy modifications to the 
chassis, including false panels and welding, emergen-
cy light bars, new headlights and bumpers, and so on, 
to create an exact duplicate of an emergency vehicle. 
This takes time and needs to be factored into any plans 
for an extraction job. The upside of creating a counter-
feit vehicle in this way is that if the run is successful, a 
runner team can simply store this vehicle in a garage or 
other inconspicuous location so it can be reused in the 
future. I know extraction teams that have garages filled 
with counterfeit emergency vehicles, including govern-
ment-issued black SUVs, DocWagon and CrashCart am-
bulances, Knight Errant and Lone Star patrol cruisers, KE 
and LS aerial drones, and an array of various corp secu-
rity vehicles. Some of the more brazen and experienced 
extraction teams doctor up counterfeit patrol and coast 
guard boats, and even full-on helicopters. Of course, 
those teams are the ones that have been established for 
years and have perfected their trade. And they are the 
ones that demand top nuyen for their services. 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT    175


==== PDF 178 ====
Before going to your rigger to have a counterfeit 
emergency vehicle created, you have to be able to bring 
him the right model of vehicle to work with. Not all emer-
gency vehicles use a similar chassis. For example, Lone 
Star generally likes to use the Chrysler-Nissan Patrol-1 
cruiser for their beat cops. Knight Errant likes the Honda 
3100, a vehicle produced by their own subsidiary. Now, 
I suppose you can bring to a rigger a vehicle that looks 
like a Nissan-Patrol-1 and ask them to make it look like 
KEÆs Honda 3100, but chances are theyÆll just laugh at 
you. Modifying a dissimilar vehicle like that will make it 
way too easy for bystander to tell that itÆs not an official 
police cruiser. The closer the match you have to the Nis-
san-Patrol-1 or the Honda 3100, the better counterfeit 
vehicle youÆll have. For Lone Star patrol cars, the Chrys-
ler-Nissan Journey is a very close match to the law-en-
forcement vehicle. With the right paint job and with the 
right modifications, it will easily pass inspection. For the 
Honda 3100, the Honda Artemis is the recommended 
vehicle when creating a duplicate of the KE patrol car. 
The two most prominent providers, DocWagon and 
CrashCart, also use dissimilar chassis for their ambulanc-
es. If your team is looking to emulate the DocWagon 
SRT, the best choice is the GMC Endurance van, while 
CrashCart utilizes the MuBoNA Rettungswagen. To 
properly build a CrashCart ambulance, many extraction 
runners recommend you should use the Saeder-Krupp 
LT-21 delivery van. Unfortunately, even though the LT-
21 is perhaps the closest model to the Rettungswagen, 
the LT-21 still has many dissimilarities that requires a fair-
ly lengthy amount of modifications to make the disguise 
work, so you could be waiting up to a couple of days for 
your rigger to make all the necessary changes.
Some runners prefer going in looking like govern-
ment officials, such as the UCAS FBI or members of 
the CAS DDI (Department of Domestic Investigation). 
Government officials still believe in sticking to the tra-
ditional mode of transportation for their agents; black 
SUVs modified with emergency light bars and dash bars. 
These vehicles donÆt require too many cosmetic mod-
ifications to make them look official. The UCAS has a 
contract with Ares to be supplied with GMC Sidewind-
ers for their government agents. These workhorses are 
readily available on the market and are easy for riggers 
to modify. CAS government officials tend to use Esprit 
Industries Watcher SUVs. These vehicles also are readily 
available on the market and can be easily modified in a 
couple hoursÆ time.
Of course, there are other vehicles that are good 
aids for extraction jobs. If you need to fake someoneÆs 
death, you can have your rigger adapt your van to mim-
ic a coronerÆs van. Give your target a dose of slab, put 
him or her in a body bag (with hidden oxygen tanks, 
natch), strap them to a gurney, and walk them out as if 
they were a corpse. A moving truck can be an excellent 
choice if you are extracting an entire family. I know one 
extraction team tagged their targetÆs house with RFID 
tags and AROs that showed them to be selling their 
house (without the targetsÆ knowledge of course). They 
left it tagged like that for a week (only turning it off when 
the family either returned home or left for the day, when 
they might inadvertently discover the tags) so that the 
neighbors would think they were moving somewhere 
else. Then on the day the runners were going to make 
their move (no pun intended), they turned all the tags 
to read as ôsold,ö and had arranged for their ômoving 
truckö to arrive at the house. The extraction team quietly 
took down the entire family and packaged them inside a 
few moving boxes. Since the neighbors all saw the tags 
suggesting the property was up for sell and now it was 
showing as having been ôsold,ö they didnÆt think of any-
thing being amiss when the runners moved all the furni-
ture (and the family) out (including the vehicles). After 
the run, the runners were ballsy enough to even sell all 
the nice furniture and the vehicles from the house, mak-
ing for a very nice side profit in the process. 
Delivery trucks can also be used to gain access to 
locations and people, although drones are making deliv-
ery trucks a rare sight these days. Even armored limou-
sines used in affluent neighborhoods could be used to 
help extract a target. With the right access codes show-
ing the armored limousine has extraterritorial rights, not 
even Knight Errant or Lone Star could touch the limou-
sine. If a security checkpoint has been set up looking for 
the target but youÆre in a vehicle identified as belonging 
to Mitsuhama, chances are you can literally drive right 
by it without being inspected. Most security person-
nel would not even think twice about stopping it due 
to the sacrosanct rules involving extraterritorial rights 
being drilled into the rent-a-copsÆ heads (and all the 
headaches that would follow if they should dare to vio-
late those sacred rules and end up being in the wrong). 
Dump trucks can also help runners. Properly modified, 
dump trucks can hold entire families (if necessary), and 
most security personnel would rather allow a garbage 
truck to pass unhindered instead of going through the 
trouble of inspecting it and getting their uniforms dirty 
(unless they have clear cause to suspect a dump truck 
was used in the extraction job). Garbage trucks come 
in one of two chassis designs; one that is wide and de-
signed for large streets, and another thatÆs narrow and 
sleeker, giving the truck a lot more agility and capability 
to maneuver in tight corners. A commonly used dump 
truck is the Dodge Ram Industrial.
>	
One thing that Sticks doesnÆt mention is that most riggers 
do not have emergency light bars or sirens lying around 
in their garages. Possessing them is a felony in most 
jurisdictions that carries a jail sentence of up to two to 
four years. Most riggers require their clients to provide 
that gear if they want their vehicles modified with them. 
Riggers that keep emergency light bars and sirens in stock 
keep them safely away from their main garage in case 
they are ever raided by the cops. So if you buy them from 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
176    EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT >>


==== PDF 179 ====
the rigger, expect a slight delay as they have to retrieve 
them from wherever they have them stashed. 
>	
Rigger X
>	
I cannot stress this enough: if you do go in dressed as 
medics, DO NOT ALLOW THE DUMB STREET SAMMIES 
TO DO THE TALKING. If they absolutely have to be there, 
they should only be there for the heavy lifting. I remember 
this one horror story very well, when a neighbor asked 
the dumb sammie who was dressed up as a medic what 
was wrong with the patient. The sammie answered thusly: 
ôWell, the patient has a fever of almost 108 degrees [first 
mistake, use the Celsius scale not the Fahrenheit scale! 
Also if you have a patient with a fever of 42 degrees 
Celsius, you need to be rushing the patient to the hospital 
before their brain cooks from inside of their body! You 
donÆt have the time to be chit-chatting with bystanders!] 
and his right side hurts. We believe he is having problems 
with his appendix [he actually got that one right, 
surprisingly enough]. We are taking him to the hospital, 
heÆll probably be in surgery in a day or two.ö No, no, no! 
With a temperature that high, the appendix would be 
close to exploding, so youÆd want to operate in an hour or 
two, not a day. There are enough smart people out there 
to notice errors like that, so the people speaking better be 
the ones who really know their stuff.
>	
Butch
I have already mentioned a few vehicle accessories 
that are needed to effectively pull off a vehicle disguise. 
There are a couple of other, smaller details a runner team 
needs to pay attention to. YouÆll need a valid license 
plate and an access ID to let sprawl-wide sensors and 
even GridGuide know that your car is properly registered 
and acknowledged as an active emergency vehicle (or 
has extraterritorial rights). A morphing license plate 
programmed with valid police or ambulance license 
plate numbers can do the trick. As far as the access 
codes go, riggers are able to provide (for a price, of 
course) spoof chips that provide these sensors a proper 
access ID. Trust me, this is one step you do not want to 
overlook. You might end up regretting it later if a missing 
or wrong access ID blows your cover and leads you to 
having a drawn-out firefight with the law as you try to 
get your target back to Mr. Johnson in one piece.
Another vehicle modification that you might wish to 
look into if you and your chummers plan on specializing 
in extractions is having a rigger install a smuggling 
compartment in your vehicle (one specifically designed 
to transport metahumans, not cargo). Sometimes, 
transporting a target in a police vehicle or ambulance 
will not work due to jurisdictional issues (a sole Lone 
Star cruiser in a KE jurisdiction will stand out like a sore 
thumb and garner unwanted attention), and sometimes 
you cannot afford to be flashing your targetÆs face all over 
town by driving them in a passenger car. There are too 
many opportunities where facial recognition programs 
might pick up your targetÆs face. Plus, sometimes you 
have to cross borders to make a drop off for Mr. Johnson. 
Trying to cross an international border with someone 
who is sedated to the point of  unconsciousness will 
raise a lot of red flags, the type of drek that even your 
face may not be able to talk your way out of. I suppose 
you can try to bribe your way across the border, but 
that starts cutting into your profits, especially if youÆre 
dealing with multiple borders like Denver.
 Typically, smuggling compartments are used to 
get around those obstacles. But smugglers generally 
use compartments that are too small to hold most 
metahuman-sized cargo. And even if they are large 
enough, theyÆre usually donÆt address the unique needs of 
metahuman cargo. A rigger needs to install a smuggling 
compartment designed to hold metahumans for hours 
if necessary (without the need to regularly open the 
compartment). Obviously, these compartments come in 
two sizes; one that holds metahumans roughly the size 
of humans (dwarfs, elfs, and orks) and one that is big 
enough to conceal a troll. Most sedans have tire wells 
for spare tires that can easily be converted to hold an 
average-sized metahuman. They can easily be concealed 
using a false bottom in the trunk. For holding trolls, all 
riggers will tell you that you will need at a bare minimum 
a large van to create a smuggling compartment large 
enough to hold the unwieldy body of a troll. Usually 
this smuggling compartment is placed underneath the 
floorboard, where, in typical models, bench seats would 
normally fold underneath the floorboard to maximize 
the vanÆs cargo capacity. Instead of placing the bench 
seat there, you place a troll. 
Now, as you can imagine, creating a smuggling com-
partment for living cargo is not the same as if you were 
creating a smuggling compartment for transporting 
street drugs or BTLs. First of all, the compartment needs 
to be padded in such a way as to protect the cargo from 
injury. If you are being pursued, and the vehicle is bounc-
ing all around, you do not want to be put in the pre-
dicament where your cargo could be thrown violently 
against the sidewalls, especially if they are unconscious. 
They could end up hitting the side wall and being very 
bruised because of it, or in a worst-case scenario, hav-
ing their neck snapped. For this reason you should have 
restraints inside of the compartmentùplus, theyÆll have 
the happy side effect of ensuring your subject is held 
in place in the event that he or she regains conscious-
ness. It could become dangerous for you if the target 
starts trying to escape or tries to position themselves 
to attack you when you open the compartment. Also, 
the smuggling compartment needs to be soundproof. 
The last thing you would want is the individual regain-
ing consciousness, calling for help, and having someone 
hear. Ideally, the smuggling compartment should have 
a locking mechanism to thwart your targetÆs attempts to 
escape, even if they should regain consciousness and 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT    177


==== PDF 180 ====
free themselves from their restraints. Finally, the com-
partment needs to be designed so it takes environmen-
tal factors into consideration. If it is summer and you are 
driving cross-county, you need to be able to pump cool 
air into the smuggling compartment, lest your subject be 
nicely broiled when you arrive for the drop. Conversely, 
you need heat if you are traveling through extremely 
cold conditions. And this should be obvious, but mak-
ing sure the compartment has proper ventilation so the 
target doesnÆt suffocate is a must. Riggers can arrange it 
so there are oxygen tanks concealed in the smuggling 
compartment. Needless to say, modifying a vehicle in 
this manner can end up being very expensive, and for 
runner teams that donÆt do very may extractions, this 
modification may not be worth it. Instead, they should 
try to work out an alternative to extracting the target in-
stead of relying on this kind of smuggling compartment. 
Another thing to keep in mind when modifying these 
vehicles is that civilian models do not have the same per-
formance or handling specifications as the real thing. If 
you desire the vehicle to have similar performance to the 
real emergency vehicle, it will cost you additional parts 
and rigger time to make it happen. These modifications 
to the engine, steering, and suspension can be very ex-
pensive on top of all the costs for the cosmetic modifica-
tions. Some teams go to the extreme length of designing 
a vehicle that can match the real thing in terms of horse-
power and performance, but many others choose to risk 
it and merely go for the cosmetic changes. It all depends 
on your bank account, and how confident you feel in your 
ability to blend in and not raise any suspicions.
I have talked a lot about how you can go about dis-
guising yourself as an authority figure to help with an 
extraction. But disguising yourself under the color of au-
thority isnÆt the only way to get close to the target. There 
are some runners (donÆt look at me, chummers) who are 
able and willing to pose as either potential pick-ups in 
nightclubs or bars for one-night stands with their targets; 
others may pretend to be joyboys/joygirls tailored to the 
targetÆs interests to ensure the target will take them to 
the closest hotel for a quick hook-up. Once alone, the 
runner is free to incapacitate the target and deliver them 
to a waiting vehicle. A good, hidden shock hand is more 
than capable of incapacitating the aroused target. But if 
thatÆs not an option, the shadowrunner could use what 
is called Stimtouch Hosiery to render their target uncon-
scious. Now, standard Stimtouch Hosiery is not designed 
or intended to deliver a tremendous shock to another 
person. They are designed to provide gentle sensations 
through the skin as well as alter the tint of the stockings 
as the wearer walks, creating a visually pleasing effect. 
Runners have modified this device to be able to deliv-
er a debilitating shock to an unwitting subject. The only 
thing the wearer has to do is make sure they are wearing 
some form of protective augmentation underneath the 
hosiery (such as smartskin or altskin modifications) that 
can provide insulation against the electrical shock. 
Another tool that could be useful in this circumstance 
is laced lipstick. Some runners apply lipstick laced with 
DMSO (dimethyl sulfoxide) and narcoject to their lips 
(or other exotic drug). So when there is kissing, a run-
ner can subtly dose the target with narcoject and wait 
as the subject passes out. This can be a risky option, as 
the runner needs to make sure they have immunity to 
narcoject or have a way of preventing the lipstick from 
getting into their own system. But if it works, a target will 
be rendered helpless and ready for extraction.
>	
Both the hosiery and the lipstick options are indeed 
effective in rendering a subject unconscious. I can attest 
to it. Though I wasnÆt trying to extract anyone at the time, 
it was meant to protect myself from the occupational 
hazard of overzealous clientele. And they worked. I can 
definitely see their merits for extractions.
>	
SeaTac Sweetie
DRONES
Unfortunately, dressing up as cops or medics is usually 
only effective for one target. But when youÆre talking 
about an entire family, things get trickier. Sure, you 
can pull off that moving truck trick I mentioned earlier, 
but there are other alternatives that may help. When 
dealing with families, it can be helpful to utilize drones. 
Specific drones can give runners options on how to 
best approach a family, help gather valuable intelli-
gence and plan multiple extraction methods, and indi-
cate whether an extraction at the home, school, work-
place would be better. 
One drone that can be useful for extractions is the 
Bust-A-Move toys. These toys were sold on the market 
for some time until they were being re-appropriated by 
shadowrunners and gangers to carry out robberies. Of 
course, since being pulled off the shelves, the shadows 
have found another purpose for Bust-A-Move drones: in-
telligence gathering for extraction jobs. On the black mar-
ket, you can find a second generation of Bust-A-Move 
toys built by runners that have been modified to take on 
the appearance of almost all of the popular toys on the 
market today, from Samurai Cyborgs and Captain Nova to 
the Firewatch Commandos. These toy drones are meant 
to be switched with toys that a child of a target is current-
ly playing with. This switch can happen anywhereùthe 
playground, school, a park, a grocery store, or the family 
vehicle when the family is in a restaurant eating. Basically, 
anywhere where a child may leave their toys behind, un-
attended. Once switched, the child will happily take the 
toy into their house, where the Bust-A-Move toy drone 
can then begin its intelligence work. The toy can record 
conversations (providing a quality recording that can fool 
most voice-print scanners), acquire security pass codes, 
obtain the full layout of the residence, make copies of ma-
glock key data, note any pets that are present or any on-
site security personnel, locate and identify any firearms 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
178    EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT >>


==== PDF 181 ====
in the house, and gather information on the schedules of 
every family member in the residence. This intelligence 
can be useful to extraction teams in deciding whether to 
hit the entire family when theyÆre at home, or whether it 
would be safer to do multiple extractions while the chil-
dren are in transit heading off to school or extracurricular 
activities and the parents are heading off to work. This in-
formation could even present runner teams an opportu-
nity to enter the residence when itÆs empty and establish 
and ambush at an advantageous time. 
There are rumors that a third-generation Bust-A-Move 
toy is being developed by inventive runners, and that it will 
be capable of holding doses of a sedative (such as nar-
coject) as well as possess a means of administering said 
sedatives so that it can covertly incapacitate a number of 
targets in the household while they are sleeping. So far, 
there has been no luck with creating a workable Bust-A-
Move drone that can succeed in this task. One problem is 
that a drone of that size only has a limited carrying capaci-
ty, and the more you try to stuff into it, the more you inhibit 
its movements, potentially making it clumsier, slower, and 
more susceptible to being caught. Secondly, children are 
naturally rough with their toys. Those that have attempted 
to put chemical reservoirs into these drones have found 
the reservoirs ending up being broken, with the result of 
most of the chemical leaking out of the toy before they 
could be used for their intended purpose. Nonetheless, 
even in their current form, Bust-A-Move toys have proven 
invaluable for the intel they harvest.
>	
I often applaud black-market ingenuity, but here, itÆs not 
even necessary. Why compromise a Bust-A-Move droneÆs 
perfectly solid operations, when you could easily sneak a 
few dragonflies through a homeÆs ventilation system and 
have them dose the family that way? ThereÆs no need to 
force these toy drones to do something when itÆs clear 
thatÆs not what they are designed for, and when there are 
other drones can handle that function and do it better. I 
mean, you canÆt tell me a drone that can fly, hover, and 
then dose a subject isnÆt superior in all ways to those that 
have to climb objects and possibly be heard or felt doing 
so? Even if a dragonfly is only capable of handling one 
dose at a time, you can send in multiple dragonflies to 
take care of the whole family. Stick with the dragonflies 
if you guys wish to be that subtle, and leave these toy 
drones to the simple intel gathering theyÆre good at.
>	
Rigger X
>	
I have to admit, I have relied on these Bust-A-Move toys 
on multiple occasions over the last couple of years, and 
they have proven both dependable and useful. They have 
gotten me into a lot of places that I might have had trouble 
accessing otherwise. And they have provided me a wealth 
of paydata. I have absolutely no complaints about their 
performance.
>	
Clockwork
>	
Slamm-0! à
>	
Netcat
>	
On it.
>	
Slamm-0!
Another useful drone is what runners have dubbed 
the ôGMC Snatch nÆ Grab.ö These drones are based off 
the GMC Chariots, which are older versions of delivery 
drones (which happen to still be in use). A number of 
these delivery drones have been converted into dis-
guised combat drones for wetwork jobs. While some 
mechanics and drone riggers have gone that route, oth-
ers have equipped the Chariot to be used for extractions; 
the ones dubbed the Snatch nÆ Grab drones (they were 
used to pick up packages, not drop them off). Basically, 
instead of concealed guns that are loaded with APDS or 
explosive rounds, theyÆre mounted with dart pistols, and 
the darts with drugs such as laΘs or concentrated Cald-
well lily extract. Once a target is knocked out, retractable 
arms from the drone spring out, snatch the person, and 
put him or her in its storage compartment, where a nor-
mal drone would have stored its packages. The drone 
can then drive out the front door of a building with its 
pilfered content. 
There are a couple of downsides with using this 
drone. The first is that the GMC Snatch nÆ Grab can 
only handle average-sized metahumans (human-sized 
and smaller). It cannot handle orks or trolls, mainly be-
cause there is no room, plus the robotic arms would 
literally snap if they tried to pick up such hefty loads. 
Secondly, most deliveries made by a delivery drone 
happen out in the open, outside of the residence or in-
side a buildingÆs hallway. There is a high probability that 
someone (or some camera) will see the abduction and 
call the police or corp security. Most of the time, the 
Snatch nÆ Grab needs active runner and decker support 
to loop camera footage and keep bystanders away in 
order for this abduction technique to work effective-
ly without anyone noticing. However, if it is pulled off 
successfully, runners could go a separate way from the 
drone and meet up with it after it has left the building, 
making egress from a building much simpler for the 
runner team without having to drag along an uncon-
scious body. A Snatch nÆ Grab normally has a faraday 
cage built into its design to block any tracking devices 
or RFID tags that the target may have been implant-
ed with. A Snatch nÆGrab drone can be used at either 
residential addresses or commercial businesses such 
as corporate offices (though many corporate offices 
require packages to be dropped off at the mail room, 
and having a delivery drone seen traveling through an 
office building will likely be seen as suspicious).
Two other drones that are frequently used to snatch 
a target from a workplace environment are the Dassault 
Janitorial Drone and the Transys Office Maid drone. Nor-
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT    179


==== PDF 182 ====
mally, the Dassault Janitorial drone is designed to clean 
and wax hallways, replace light bulbs, vacuum carpets, 
and clean bathrooms. The Dassault drone is becoming 
more commonplace in office buildings, as the mainte-
nance of this drone is cheaper by far than employing a 
full-time metahuman janitor. This drone by itself is too 
large to enter individual offices, but its bulky size makes 
it perfect to hollow out and turn it into a smuggling com-
partment to hold a metahuman body (this drone can 
hold a metahuman up to the size of a troll). To make this 
extraction technique work, the Dassault Janitorial drone 
needs to function in conjunction with the Transys Office 
Maid, which is designed to operate in tight corners and to 
fit inside offices. It is designed to have the dexterity and 
precision to clean all the surfaces inside an office, particu-
larly the floors, desk, and windows. But this drone has no 
cargo capacity whatsoever. Most riggers equip the small 
Office Maid drone with a concealed dart pistol and darts 
filled with an appropriate sedative so that it can deliver 
the knockout blow. The Office Maid is not designed to be 
very strong, so riggers have to enhance its robotic arms so 
that it can drag a metahuman to its partner, the janitorial 
drone. It also needs to be strong enough to help load the 
body into the other drone. The arms on this Office Maid 
likely will not be reusable after making one extraction, as 
its hydraulic systems burn out quickly under the strain. But 
it is generally able to make it out of the building on its own 
power to be repaired for future extractions. 
The Dassault Janitorial drone has to sacrifice many of 
its functions to be able to house a metahuman. But more 
often than not, security personnel have more important 
things to do than to see if a drone is doing its job. And if it 
is painted to resemble another drone thatÆs active with-
in the building, most security personnel will be satisfied 
that the scheduled work is being done and not realize 
that there are two drones with the same model num-
bers operating in the building (though as many runners 
will tell you, there can always be pesky exceptions to 
that rule). As is the case with the delivery drone, on-site 
runner and decker support may be necessary to prevent 
the exchange of the target between the two drones from 
being spotted by bystanders and an alarm being raised. 
Switching back to the residential situation for a mo-
ment, another extraction technique that many teams like 
is replacing the household Renraku Manservant drone 
with one that has been modified by drone riggers. The 
Renraku Manservant has been intentionally designed 
to feature many safety measures to assuage fears that 
these drones, designed by Renraku to help with house-
hold chores, can never go out of control and become 
wannabe Deuses. The Manservant is limited in how fast 
it moves, and how strong it is. Plus, it generally has a 
panic button just in case it malfunctions and residents 
need to call corp security for assistance. By replacing the 
actual Manservant with a modified one that you control, 
a runner team gains another advantage that the unsus-
pecting extraction targets wonÆt be expecting. These 
modified Manservants have been redesigned to move 
at the same movement speed as any metahuman, and 
they have the strength to restrain a subject, ensuring that 
if a family extraction goes down, the family members 
have fewer options to flee. The manservant drone can 
be used to lock down possible alternate escape routes 
(e.g., breaking the lock for the back door to make sure 
it remains locked, or sealing any windows that are ca-
pable of being opened) and can decrease the chances 
that one or more of the family members may escape 
from the house and blow the extraction job. But they 
are often used in another helpful manner. While infiltrat-
ing the house, a modified Manservant drone can car-
ry out its household chores as normal, but in doing so, 
it can seek out any firearms that may be in the house 
and unload their ammunition, or possibly replace the 
ammunition with blanks. If the weapons are stored in 
lock boxes, Manservant drones can hide the lock boxes 
during their normal routines, guaranteeing that if some-
one in the house reaches for a weapon during a violent 
home invasion, they wonÆt be able to find them in time. 
If youÆre wondering if it would be worthwhile to invest in 
this drone, keep in mind that in 2075, nearly three out of 
every four households in North America have a Renra-
ku Manservant or similar model. And nearly half (many 
of which are higher-income households) have two or 
more. So if you are working extraction jobs, chances are 
youÆll find opportunities to utilize this drone. 
DRUGS
Drugs can be one of the most important tools in an 
extraction teamÆs toolkit. Rendering a person uncon-
scious or incapacitated quickly can prove invaluable to 
any extraction team. A runner should consider having 
each of the drugs IÆm going to mention available in 
their toolkits. 
One thing to keep in mind is that these sedatives can 
react badly to medications that your target may be on 
for various medical conditions or can make an existing 
medical condition worse. Or the subject can be allergic 
to these drugs. Before trying to extract a target, particu-
larly one that may not be in the best of health, itÆs always 
best to have a look at their medical records (if they have 
any) and know for certain which sedatives may or may 
not work for the target. The last thing you want to do is 
inadvertently deliver a corpse to your Mr. Johnson.
>	
When in doubt, slap a biomonitor on your target after you 
have knocked them out and set it up to send reports to 
your commlink or cyberdeck. It will be able to alert you 
when something is going wrong with them. This could 
prove crucial if you are currently distracted by other 
aspects of the run, and you may not be paying that close 
of attention to their current welfare. Doing this can save 
their life and still allow you to be paid for the job.  
>	
Butch   
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
180    EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT >>


==== PDF 183 ====
CALDWELL LILY EXTRACT
Caldwell lily extract comes from an Awakened aquatic 
lily found in Chicago (specifically the lily ponds found 
at the former Lincoln Park). Typically, the extracts 
from the Caldwell lily are used as a hallucinogen by 
local shamans in their rituals, but Caldwell lily extract 
has also been used as an anesthetic. Caldwell lily ex-
tract can be applied to and absorbed directly through 
the skin to numb a specific part of the body. This is 
frequently used by runners when having to stitch up 
gunshot wounds or knife wounds. But the extract of 
the Caldwell lily is much more potent and effective if 
delivered as an injection (in this form, Caldwell lily ex-
tract becomes more of a general anesthetic, numbing 
the entire body. It may require two doses in order to 
completely render the subject unconscious). You can 
just purchase the normal extract, or you can purchase 
a concentrated version that a few pharmaceutical com-
panies manufacture that is composed of extracts from 
three Caldwell lilies. One dose of this concentrated ver-
sion is usually sufficient to render most targets uncon-
scious. Many prefer to use concentrated Caldwell lily 
extract because there have been very few documented 
instances where the subject has shown any ill effects 
from being anesthetized by itùallergic reactions, bad 
medicinal interactions, and other medical complica-
tions seem to be rare, occurring in maybe 0.1 percent 
of individuals. Unfortunately, this Awakened extract is 
extremely rare, making it very expensive.  But if it is 
able to allow you to deliver your target safely, isnÆt it 
worth it?   
>	
Sure. Assuming Mr. Johnson is covering expenses, of 
course.
>	
Stone
CHLORAL HYDRATE
Chloral hydrate is a sedative that has been around since 
1832 and is the main ingredient in the knockout drink 
known as a Mickey Finn. It is a compound that is sol-
uble in either water or alcohol. In some ways it can be 
thought of as a mundane version of laΘs (without the 
side effects of affecting memory). Once ingested, chlo-
ral hydrate can quickly render a victim unconscious. Its 
effects are intensified by either alcohol or other medica-
tions that cause drowsiness. Chloral hydrate is also much 
cheaper than laΘs. If you canÆt get a hold of laΘs (and 
many canÆt), chloral hydrate is an acceptable alternative.
CHLOROFORM
Chloroform was a popular anesthesia in the nine-
teenth century. Once discovered, chloroform replaced 
ether as the preferred anesthesia. Chloroform fell out 
of practice when it was discovered that it led to cer-
tain side effects including cardiac arrhythmias. Nearly 
one in twenty metahumans experience an arrhythmia 
while under the effect of chloroform, making this gas-
eous substance rather dangerous. Chloroform is also 
impractical when trying to render both orks and trolls 
unconscious, as it tends not to keep them out for long. 
Dwarfs, for their part have a natural immunity to chlo-
roform. Given its inherently dangerous characteristics 
and the fact that it doesnÆt work well on all metahu-
mans, this should not be your first choice of drug for 
an extraction.
DMSO (DIMETHYL SULFOXIDE)
When mixed with another compound, dimethyl sulf-
oxide allows that compound to be absorbed rapidly 
through the skin. This provides runners with all sorts of 
possibilities, including lacing objects a person normally 
handles with a drug meant to incapacitate them. The 
individual often will not realize they have been drugged 
until itÆs too late. The contact vector is one of the most 
subtle and reliable means to deliver a toxin or drug, and 
it is preferred by both assassins and extraction teams.
GAMMA-SCOPOLAMINE
Gamma-scopolamine is a popular choice for some ex-
traction teams because it inflicts immediate paralysis 
in a target, along with a number of other conditions, 
such as speech loss and delirium. The paralysis lasts 
approximately an hour. If the target needs to be inter-
rogated, this drug puts them in a state that is conducive 
to mining useful and truthful data from a subject after 
the paralysis wears off. The downside is that the sub-
ject remains conscious while under the affects of gam-
ma-scopolamine. Some targets who have either been 
magicians or technomancers and who have been par-
ticularly strong-willed have found ways of still casting 
spells, summoning spirits, or accessing the Matrix even 
when their bodies are paralyzed. It may be safer for ex-
traction teams if gamma-scopolamine is used only on 
targets that are neither magicians nor technomancers. 
Additionally, even though gamma-scopolamine leaves 
most involuntary muscular functions intact, there are 
a number of subjects that stop breathing as a result of 
the drug (typically one person out of every sixty or so). 
LA╔S/LE─L
These Tφr Tairngire drugs are derived from the fruit of 
the laΘsal tree, widely believed to be only found in the 
Tφr (though let me add that this is patently not true. I 
know from certain black market contacts of mine that 
there are other sources of the laΘsal fruit now, and they 
continue to be more black market suppliers of the fruit 
each year. The collapse of the former Tφr regime and 
the chaos that followed Crash 2.0 allowed a significant 
number of trees to disappear from Tφr lands and appear 
on the black market). A big advantage of laΘs and leΣl 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT    181


==== PDF 184 ====
for extraction teams is that it wipes short-term mem-
ories of the target, for a period of about twenty-four 
hours. If done properly, the victim will have no recol-
lection of who snatched them, and those memories 
can never be recovered, either by magic or technology. 
The target of the extraction may remain unconscious 
for up to two hours. But it is equally important to know 
that roughly one in thirty targets may experience det-
rimental side affects to laΘs or leΣl, which typically in-
volves long-term memory loss that can span decades. 
If Mr. Johnson requires specific knowledge from the 
target, this may be extremely detrimental to the suc-
cess of your job, even if the target is still breathing by 
the time you pass him or her off to Mr. Johnson. LaΘs 
is the actual drug that is administered typically through 
ingestion or injection. LeΣl is a specific product made 
with laΘs, usually a very expensive brandy. LeΣl is much 
less potent than laΘs, lasting a short period of time and 
wiping out a smaller window of memories.
>	
Club kids love the leΣl for reasons that are all too 
obvious. So if you find yourself in need of some, stop by 
a local nightclub and look for the biggest douche in the 
room. He probably has some, or knows where you can 
get some fast.
>	
Kat oÆ Nine Tales
NARCOJECT
Narcoject is a common tranquilizer many runners rely 
on for extractions. It is generally safe for the target, 
though one in eighty people express an allergic reac-
tion to the tranquilizer. Some of those allergic reac-
tions can be life threatening. Narcoject is believed not 
to cause any significant side effects in a subject who is 
not allergic to it.
SLAB
Slab is an anesthetic capable of putting a target into 
a deep state of suspended animation. It does such 
a good job that those trying to diagnose the patient 
may come to the conclusion they are dead, even with 
medkits assisting in the diagnosis. Unfortunately, one 
in thirty metahumans who are given this drug will 
not wake up from it. Slab pushes their bodies too far 
by slowing down their metabolic processes, and they 
die as a result. Understanding a targetÆs medical back-
ground is an absolute necessity if you are going with 
this drug for the extraction. Any kind of ailment or ge-
netic weakness could lead the target dying on you. This 
should be reserved only for those times that faking a 
death is absolutely necessary. The use of slab can be a 
real gamble for any extraction.
OPTIONAL RULE: DRUG INTERACTION
If a character uses a drug on a target to sedate them, 
there is always a chance that drug may interact negatively 
with whatever drugs the NPC may be on (either prescription 
or street drugs). If that should happen, the gamemaster should 
determine the severity of the interaction: Mild, Moderate, 
Severe, or Extreme. Here are the consequences for the 
character at each level:
Mild: A drug interaction at this level produces cosmetic 
changes in the target, such as a rash, skin discoloration, and/
or some difficulty breathing. The patient will be in discomfort 
when they wake up, but the interaction is not life threatening 
and does not worsen.
Moderate: The drug interaction inflicts damage on the 
patient. The individual undergoing a drug interaction must 
resist 3P damage every Combat Turn until at least one of the 
drugs wears off. This damage is resisted by the characterÆs 
Body attribute. 
Severe: The character is in serious trouble. The drug 
that was given to the character is likely putting their heart 
into an arrhythmia, doing organ damage, spiking their blood 
pressure, or inflicting other severe complications. The drug 
could even be countering whatever medication the target was 
on. The character suffering a drug interaction at the Severe 
level must resist half the Power Level of the drug that caused 
the problematic interaction. So if narcoject caused this drug 
interaction, the victim must resist 8P worth of damage (initial 
power of 15, divided by half = 7.5, which becomes 8 when it is 
rounded up) for every Combat Turn until the drug that caused 
the negative interaction no longer has an effect.
Extreme: The characterÆs life signs crash. They are in 
cardiac arrest and are not breathing. They are immediately put 
into 1 box of overflow damage and will die in a short amount of 
time unless stabilized. Even if stabilized, there is a very good 
change of long-lasting consequences for the character, such 
as brain damage from a stroke, heart damage from a heart 
attack, liver or kidney damage, etc. Gamemasters should use 
this option very cautiously.
A negative drug interaction may take up 1D6 minutes to 
begin manifesting symptoms and forcing the subject to make 
damage resistance tests. 
Although a character may not have any drug interaction, 
they may have an allergic reaction to a sedative. Follow the 
rules for Allergy negative quality on p. 78, SR5.
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
182    EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT >>


==== PDF 185 ====
SPELLS
If your team has access to a spellslinger, the following 
are spells that many extraction teams recommend your 
mage or shaman learn to help make extractions easi-
er. These spells can also provide a convenient back-up 
plan in case another aspect of the job goes wrong.  
CONVINCE
Every story your face tells is at risk for inconsistencies. 
Most faces can smooth talk their way past them and 
prevent the target from noticing the errors in their sto-
ry, but even faces have their off days. Or some times, 
youÆre forced to work with sub-par faces. In any case, 
sometimes you need a way of making it harder for tar-
gets to notice these inconsistencies, no matter how 
glaring. Some magicians in the shadows have come 
up with a spell formula called Convince. Convince is a 
spell designed to make even the most astute, obser-
vant person oblivious in a given situation.     
FASHION
Most shadowrunners know the benefits of having a 
mage or shaman who can cast the Fashion spell on 
them. It can literally change a suit into a uniform in a 
matter of a few seconds, making it that much easier 
to blend into a crowd or pull off a disguise (such as 
posing as a KE cop). This can allow a team tremendous 
flexibility during a run, allowing them to change outfits 
on the fly. There are inherent limitations with this spell, 
however, including not being able to precisely dupli-
cate accessories such as badges, buttons, lapel pins, 
etc. A Fashion spell can attempt to mimic those acces-
sories and may be able to fool people from a distance, 
but up close, people are going to be able to tell that 
ôbadgeö you are wearing is not the real thing. Fashion 
can only change one type of material into another of 
a similar size and mass. What I would recommend for 
extraction teams is to go into a situation with a prop-
erly constructed disguise from one of the fixers that I 
mentioned earlier (with all the right accessories), and 
then if need be, use Fashion to shift the disguise into 
something less conspicuous later. Another option is 
for extraction teams to obtain the proper accessories 
from someone on site (such as a security guard that 
they have rendered unconscious) and simply add those 
accessories to the disguise they have built using the 
Fashion spell.  
HIBERNATE
When a runner team does not have access to a Houdini 
machine to provide nutrients and sustenance to their 
target, this spell can allow them to adapt by slowing 
down a targetÆs metabolic processes through magic. 
The more powerful the spell, the slower a metahumanÆs 
metabolic processes become. This spell can delay the 
targetÆs need for food or water for days if necessary, as 
long as it is sustained. However, when the spell ends 
and the subjectÆs metabolic processes return to normal, 
they find themselves dehydrated and famished. But 
that should only happen after you have turned the tar-
get over to Mr. Johnson, and that should be their prob-
lem and not yours. The Hibernate spell is also notably 
gentler on a targetÆs body than the use of the slab drug 
and can be more finely controlled than the drug. To my 
knowledge, no one has actually died from the use of 
the Hibernate spell, giving this spell the clear advan-
tage over slab. With enough net hits (6+), the Hiber-
nate spell can fool a medkit into believing the subject is 
deceased. Hibernate works against both voluntary and 
unconscious targets.      
INTERFERENCE
When dealing with any important target, you have to 
be willing to deal with the problem that the target may 
be able to send out a wireless signal to someone else 
before you can render them unconscious or incapaci-
tated. This usually takes the form of a PANICBUTTON, 
but it can also be an implanted commlink sending out 
an emergency call to Knight Errant or Lone Star. Many 
extraction teams rely on signal jammers to prevent a 
wireless signal from escaping and bringing down heat 
upon runnersÆ heads. However, if circumstances arise 
and prevent you from being able to bring a signal jam-
mer with you into a building, then the Interference spell 
is a perfectly acceptable option, since it is capable of 
jamming both radio and wireless signals.  
INTOXICATION
Sometimes, a viable option for a extracting a target is 
to make the target act as though they are intoxicated, 
and then the runners come along afterward and act as 
though they are helping the intoxicated person out by 
shoving him or her into a waiting vehicle and taking 
off. This can be accomplished using other methods, but 
having a mage or shaman cast this spell on the target is 
just as effective (provided the target is not a magician 
who might be able to counterspell).
NUTRITION
Whereas the Hibernate spell approaches the problem 
of keeping a target alive by slowing down their metab-
olism and reducing their need for food or water, Nutri-
tion approaches the problem by using mana to directly 
nourish the subjectÆs body, turning mana into suste-
nance. In the past, Nutrition was only available to work 
on voluntary targets. In the last couple of years, magi-
cians working in the shadows have developed spell for-
mulae that will also work on unconscious and unwilling 
targets, though the drain for this spell against uncoop-
erative targets is higher (or so IÆve been told by some 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT    183


==== PDF 186 ====
magician friends). The good news is that the nutritional 
materials this spell creates becomes permanent after it 
is cast and does not need to be sustained. A downside 
is that if it is used too frequently, the body becomes 
dependent on this magical nourishment. Most magi-
cians agree that it is highly dangerous for the target to 
use this spell for longer than seventy-two hours. The 
Houdini machine does not pose this danger for the tar-
get, making it the optimal choice for extraction. But in a 
pinch, this spell may be a good solution.   
SOUND BARRIER
Sound Barrier creates a bubble of silence covering a 
specific area of effect. This spell is useful to cast around 
a target meant for extraction before you attempt to 
take them down to prevent them from yelling out and 
drawing attention. This sound barrier does not prevent 
radio or wireless signals from escaping the bubble. You 
would need another spell for that (listed above) called 
Interference.
VEHICLE MASK
Instead of taking a vehicle to a rigger or other auto-
motive mechanic for expensive modifications, a lot of 
teams choose to go with a mage or shaman that can 
cast Vehicle Mask. Vehicle Mask can do pretty much 
everything Chameleon Coating can do, plus it can 
mimic physical accessories such as emergency light 
bars. The problem with Vehicle Mask is that the larger 
the vehicle is to disguise, the greater force of spell is 
needed to properly disguise it. So a motorcycle or a 
sedan should be just fine, but when you start talking 
about Ares Roadmasters and bigger, than you start 
causing problems for your magician. I personally rec-
ommend not taking the cheap route and just go with 
the riggers and what they can do for you (because they 
are the vehicle experts and thatÆs what they do for a liv-
ing), but thatÆs just a personal preference. Vehicle Mask 
can and often does provide a very convenient method 
of escape if pursued, allowing a vehicle to change its 
appearance with the whim of the controlling magician. 
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
184    EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT >>


==== PDF 187 ====
ADEPT POWERS
Spellslingers are not the only way to get magic in on 
your extraction efforts. Adepts have a few useful tools 
and powers at their disposal as well. Like the following. 
 
COMMANDING VOICE
With this power, an adept can give a target a five-word 
command. With magical energies empowering their 
words, an adept with this ability can compel a target 
to do almost anything, including dropping a weapon, 
walking out of a building, getting into a car, or remain-
ing silent while another team member renders the 
target unconscious. Adepts have said that this ability 
can only be used on a single target a limited number 
of times within a twenty-four hour period or else they 
grow resistant to it, but all it takes is one action the ad-
ept stops or alters to make a difference in a run. This 
power, if used properly, can minimize opportunities for 
things to go wrong and minimize any violence that may 
be required to grab the target.
LIGHT TOUCH
Adepts in the extraction business often find they re-
quire the palming skill, either to lift items from a tar-
get for access reasons (e.g., commlinks or key cards) 
or subtly dose them with a contact drug. Light Touch 
allows the adept to make the attempt, but to do so with 
such a graceful motion that it becomes extraordinarily 
difficult for most metahumans to perceive that some-
one has made contact with them until it is too late. This 
adept power is often used in conjunction with the Nim-
ble Fingers adept power (see below).    
MIMIC
To get to a target for extraction, many teams have to rely 
on breaking-and-entering tools to bypass security mea-
sures to get them in. These tools often include cellular 
glove molders and cybereyes with the retinal duplication 
modification. Adepts with this power can mimic the func-
tions of those technical devices. An adept with this pow-
er needs to touch the subject that will be providing the 
print patterns; they can then use their magic to shift their 
retinal patterns, fingerprints, and palm prints into copies 
of the subjectÆs prints. They need to maintain contact a 
decent amount of uninterrupted contact with the target; 
the longer the contact, the better quality their copies will 
be. The adept then has a limited amount of time to gain 
access to the area where the subject is and extract them 
before their print patterns revert to their natural state. 
This power saves runners the need to spend time making 
a fake print with a glove, and gives runner teams the op-
tion of choosing different print patterns for access. This 
comes in handy if an alarm is sounded and the print they 
have been using becomes disabled.
NERVE STRIKE
Extraction teams normally bring about paralysis in a 
target by drugging them. Adepts can do the same thing 
by knowing precisely where to hit the target and ap-
plying precisely the right amount of force to key nerve 
clusters. The advantage of relying on adepts with the 
Nerve Strike power is that you do not have to worry 
about transporting or smuggling illicit drugs on your 
person to dose a target with. An adeptÆs fists will serve 
the same purpose, and no one will be the wiser until 
the actual extraction attempt goes down. 
NIMBLE FINGERS
The Nimble Fingers adept power improves the dex-
terity of the adeptÆs digits, allowing them to perform 
astounding sleight-of-hand feats without being no-
ticed. In conjunction with Light Touch, Nimble Fingers 
can make the adept a perfect weapon in an extraction 
teamÆs arsenalùor turn them into a frightening assassin 
if the job calls for it.
EXTRACTION DEVICES
DEVICE
AVAILABILITY
COST
Houdini Machine I (commlink and biomonitor) (does not include cost of drugs)
12F
8,500Ñ
Houdini Machine II (medkit computer) (does not include cost of drugs)
12F
12,000Ñ
Ambulance gurney
8
2,000Ñ
Body bag
6
50Ñ
Fake DocWagon wrist band
10F
100Ñ
Stimtouch hosiery
6R
250Ñ
Laced lipstick
10F
Special
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
<< EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT    185


==== PDF 188 ====
>> STOLEN SOULS <<
DISGUISES
DISGUISE
AVAILABILITY
COST
Uniforms
16F
2,000-15,000Ñ
Fixer services
ù
250Ñ per hour
Forger services
ù
500Ñ+
FACTORY VEHICLES AND THEIR SPECIALIZED USES
VEHICLE
SPECIALIZED USE
Ares Roadmaster (transport)
Counterfeit SWAT vehicle/Urban Command Center
Chrysler-Nissan Journey (car)
Counterfeit Lone Star patrol cruiser
Conestoga Trailblazer
Counterfeit moving truck
Dodge Ram Industrial
Garbage truck
Esprit Industries Watcher (SUV)
Counterfeit CAS government vehicle
GMC Endurance (van)
Counterfeit DocWagon ambulance
GMC Sidewinder (SUV)
Counterfeit UCAS government vehicle
Honda Artemis (car)
Counterfeit Knight Errant patrol cruiser
S-K LT-21 (delivery van)
Counterfeit CrashCart ambulance
VEHICLE MODIFICATIONS
MODIFICATION
AVAILABILITY
COST
Chameleon coating
12R
Body x 2,000Ñ
Dash light bar
15F
3,500Ñ
Emergency light bar
15F
5,000Ñ
Morphing license plate
8F
1,000Ñ
Siren
15F
1,400Ñ
Smuggling compartment (dwarf, human, elf, or ork)
12F
3,500Ñ
Smuggling compartment (troll)
12F
7,000Ñ
Spoof chips
8F
500Ñ
Rigger services
ù
500Ñ per hour
186    EXTRACTORÆS TOOLKIT >>
DRUGS (PER DOSE)
DRUG
AVAILABILITY
COST
Caldwell lily extract
10R
600Ñ
Caldwell lily extract, concentrated
12R
1,000Ñ
Chloral hydrate
6R
50Ñ
Chloroform
4R
75Ñ
DMSO
5R
50Ñ
Gamma-scopolamine
14F
200Ñ
LΣel
10F
400Ñ
LaΘs
12F
750Ñ
Liquid nutrients
4R
75Ñ
Narcoject
8R
50Ñ
Normal saline
ù
30Ñ
Slab
8R
250Ñ


