

===== forbiddenarcana.pdf PDF page 69 =====
ness, self-reliance, and perseverance are their core 
values. While each individual values these in var-
ious amounts, the Norse tradition finds common 
purpose with many of the Sixth World’s current val-
ues. The trope of the noble barbarian surely exists 
for some, but for others, it is the ancient family- and 
honor-based system that fits best with them. 
SORCERY
Spellweaving, as it’s called, is common among 
the Awakened of the Norse tradition. It involves 
the use of futhark runes and prayers to one of 
many gods in the pantheon.
CONJURING
Norse magicians believe they deal with the denizens 
of the other Realms of the World Tree. Those who can 
cross to Midgard are the fire giants of Muspelheim 
(fire spirits), the wild fae of Alfheim (plant spirits), the 
dwarfs of Nidavellir (earth spirits), the storm spirits 
of Thrudheim (air spirits), and the Valkyrie (guardian 
spirits). While traditional Godi acknowledge them, 
they do not summon them. Their interaction is more 
akin to prayers to the gods. It is the Seidman and Vit-
ka who would bring and deal with denizens from the 
nine realms in Midgard (Earth). Many of the spirits 
summoned from the Realms of the World Tree dis-
like metahumans or the process of being brought to 
Midgard. They require tributes before they perform 
services for the Awakened.
ENCHANTING
Enchanting is also common among the Norse 
magicians. Many stories and sagas tell of magical 
weapons for the heroes to wield, and every hero 
has given their weapon a name. This practice has 
been modernized with the additional knowledge 
of alchemy and runemasters’ use of futhark runes 
in the creation of preparations.
NORSE MAGICIAN RULES
GODI/RUNEMASTER
•	
Cannot use the Conjuring skill group.
•	
Reduce opposing Force of ritual spellcasting 
by 2 when Imbuing (p. 133, Street Grimoire) 
or Attuning items (p. 124, Street Grimoire).
•	
Can Attune normal items as per an adept.
•	
Durable Preparations: Increase the prepa-
ration’s potency by x3 instead of x2. Dou-
ble the time it takes to lose potency.
CUNNING WOMAN
•	
Treat as an aspected magician (p. 69, SR5) 
with a Sorcery focus and an inclination toward 
Health spells.
SEIDMAN
•	
Cannot use the Sorcery skill group.
•	
Gains Dedicated Conjurer quality for free.
BERSERKERS (ADEPT ONLY)
FREE ADEPT POWER
Berserker Temper: When you take Physical dam-
age in combat—or if someone under your care 
is badly injured—make a Charisma + Willpower 
Test (wound modifiers apply). You go berserk 
for 3 Combat Turns minus 1 turn per hit, so 3 or 
more hits averts the berserk temper entirely. If 
your totem also has this disadvantage, then any 
turns they might impose stack with the results of 
your test those additional turns (for example, if 
a Berserker chooses Bear, then they can possibly 
go berserk for as long as 6 turns).  Berserk power 
bonus does not apply while raging with Berserk-
er Temper. When Berserk, you go after characters 
without regard for your own safety.
NOTABLE TEACHERS 
Alva Hansen is a second-generation Ásatru sha-
man, focusing on seiðr magic. While outside 
of the mainstream of Norse magic, her tantric, 
shaking, ritual-sex-based magic is gaining quite 
a following, mostly for the obvious reasons. She 
has written numerous books about seiðr, which 
have become bestsellers, especially in the UCAS, 
perhaps more for their illustrations than their con-
tent. Regardless, Alva tends to teach more wom-
en than men, as seiðr developed a reputation as 
a “womanly” art. However, Hansen is willing to 
teach any willing students to practice magic as 
she commands, no questions asked. 
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
NORSE TRADITION
Combat: Guardian
Detection: Earth
Health: Plant
Illusion: Air
Manipulation: Fire
Drain: Willpower + Charisma
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Death Touch, Eyes of the Pack, Insulate, Personal Warmth, 
Shape Ice, Shatter
68    TRADITIONS >>


===== forbiddenarcana.pdf PDF page 84 =====
that their tradition is not toxic, despite what they 
call superficial similarities. 
Dr. Jennifer Stinson, who has claimed the title 
“High Priestess of Black,” famously demonstrat-
ed the power of Necro Magic in 2075 when she 
performed a ritual ending the burgeoning VI-
TAS-4 outbreak in Milan. While there were some 
casualties among the poorest citizens, the rest 
of the city was so grateful that it hailed Stinson 
as a savior.
The current incarnation of the Necro Magic 
tradition began in earnest following the return of 
the Tzuri Group from a metaplanar archeologi-
cal expedition in 2064. For a decade, practice of 
Necro Magic remained secretive and restricted 
to those within the Tzuri Group which took part 
in the expedition. When Dr. Stinson saved Milan, 
however, many interested parties began to seek 
her out for instruction. 
Stinson cites the magic of the Green and Red 
when discussing how Necro Magic is not unnat-
ural or evil, but simply another facet of life in the 
universe. Necro mages claim that while their pow-
er can seem only destructive, it is actually peaceful 
in the same way that arms manufacturers actually 
seek peace and safety when they create weapons. 
Stinson vows that her tradition only uses Necro 
Magic for the greater good, and thus far, every-
thing she has shown the outside world has been 
consistent with that claim. 
>	
Anyone else thinking it is what she hasn’t shown the 
outside world that is going to bite us in the hoop?
>	
Netcat
>	
Come on, ‘Cat. You of all people should know better than 
to condemn what you don’t understand. 
>	
Butch
>	
No, Netcat is right to be scared. Stinson has skeletons in 
her closet. Actual skeletons. And she speaks with them 
nightly after her grisly blood rituals. 
>	
Plan 9
>	
Are you even trying to differentiate between real and 
make-believe anymore?
>	
Snopes 
Stinson and the Tzuri Group are adamant that 
their beliefs are not new or novel. They claim 
that, according to discoveries they made on 
their journey, their magic has been practiced on 
Earth and elsewhere for more than ten thousand 
years. Necro Magic, they claim, is the basis for 
much of the magic practiced in many existing 
traditions. 
RELATED MENTOR SPIRITS 
Many Necro mages follow the mentor spirit 
Death or Dark King, if they follow a mentor at all. 
IDEALS
The Necro Magic tradition teaches that death is 
not only an inevitable aspect of life, but also one 
that ultimately leads to peace. Necro mages tend 
to value quiet and stillness, as they believe the 
universe was at its most peaceful before there 
was life. Most consider their fascination with the 
dead to be unhealthy, but Necro mages counter 
that most religions in the Sixth World also value 
communion with the dead, albeit in a way that 
Necro mages believe is sanitized, delayed, and 
distorted. 
ROLE-PLAYING A NECRO MAGE
Necro mages will always be looked upon with suspicion. 
Even in areas like parts of Tsimshian and Yakut, where Necro 
Magic is accepted, the average person will still more than likely 
fear a Necro mage because of their power and morbid nature. It 
is up to the player to decide how evil a Necro mage really is. Is 
Necro Magic really malevolent, while trying to masquerade as a 
simple force of nature? Are mages in the thrall of a force much 
darker and more heinous than they let on? Or perhaps they 
really seek the good of all through one of nature’s more hated 
but necessary forces?
NECRO MAGIC
Combat: Corpse (Man)
Detection: Carcass (Beast)
Health: Rot (Plant)
Illusion: Detritus (Earth)
Manipulation: Palefire (Fire)
Drain: Willpower + Logic
PREFERRED SPELLS 
Death Replay, Death Touch, Manabolt, Manaball, One Less, 
Slaughter, Slay, Shattershield, Rot, Death Mark (ritual), Necro 
Summoning (ritual), Whisper of Bones (ritual)
>> FORBIDDEN ARCANA <<
<< TRADITIONS    83
