

===== PDF page 30 =====
>	
Chummer, if you can afford forty-five percent of the 
annual contract at the clinic, you’re better off just giving 
the cash to the doctor on duty as a bribe to make him 
decide to “prioritize” you to the top of the list.
>	
Rigger X
>	
WagonWheel is a new outreach program that started a 
few months ago when DocWagon got its hands on a few 
dozen late-model CityMasters. It loaded them up with 
some medics, some bodyguards, some supplies, and 
sent them into the rougher parts of town. I still can’t figure 
out how they expect to make money on it, because it all 
seems too nice to not have an angle somewhere.
>	
Butch
>	
If I were one of the security team, the first thing I’d do is 
make nice with whatever go-gang owned the turf I was 
in and cut them a deal on the drugs in the van for some 
protection. That seems like it would be a good motive for 
the corporation, too. Get a working relationship with a 
gang, build a clinic on their turf, and then get kickbacks 
when the boys decide to tear the neighborhood up.
>	
Rigger X
>	
Most of the medics are fresh-faced kids who still think 
being a doctor is about helping people. The security 
officers are HTR washouts. They don’t get paid much, but 
they get to feel good about helping people, I guess.
>	
Empty
>	
What are your options if you can’t or won’t pony up for 
a DocWagon membership or one from a competitor? 
Is every hospital in Seattle owned by a health-service 
provider?
>	
Stick
>	
Your options are very limited. You can go to one of 
DocWagon’s competitors (which we’ll get to in a moment), 
or you can get help at a public facility. There are a few 
hospitals and free clinics that aren’t owned by a health-
service provider, but even those are heavily subsidized 
and influenced by those corporations. Your best bet is to 
find a street doc, which I talk about elsewhere in this file.
>	
Sunshine
Non-subscribers may purchase prescriptions and 
other medications at DocWagon locations featuring 
PharmaFarm mini markets. Non-subscribers may be el-
igible for bulk discounts on sustainable medications as 
well as over-the-counter medications and disposable 
medical devices. On-site, long-term clinical care is not 
available to non-subscribers, though assistance for long-
term care may be provided for an administration fee. 
PharmaFarm may only provide restricted medications 
such as painkillers to authorized subscribers. Pharma-
Farm is open twenty-four hours a day and seven days a 
week in most locations. Please check your local grid for 
availability and active hours.
>	
PharmaFarm 
was 
recently 
spun 
off 
from Apex 
Pharmaceuticals in one of those moves trying to convince 
consumers that DocWagon doesn’t own everything, 
even though it does. Once people get more comfortable 
with the brand, they’ll be moving into direct competition 
with Stuffer Shack instead of only being attached to 
longstanding urgent care clinics like they are now.
>	
Mr. Bonds
>	
Am I the only one who prefers PharmaFarm’s Electric Pigs 
In a Blanket to Stuffer Shack’s Que-Soy-Ritos?
>	
Slamm-0! 
Emergency visits without a healthcare provider can 
be devastating to savings and financial stability. DocWag-
on recommends non-subscribers to check in at local 
public hospitals first before visiting a DocWagon clinic. 
Non-subscribers are allowed one emergency visit every 
six months, with payment in full due at the end of the vis-
it. Only patients with valid SINs are allowed these grace 
visits, and the visit may only take place if the non-sub-
scriber’s account with DocWagon is current. Upon en-
tering an emergency room as a non-subscriber, the pa-
tient forfeits any rights to legal recourse for malpractice, 
mental damages, or any and all legal courses of action in 
exchange for the consideration of emergency treatment.
DocWagon personnel may accept contracts from 
other health-service providers, provided they are part of 
the Docs Around the Clock reciprocation program. Docs 
Around the Clock must pay in full upon time of services 
rendered. DocWagon subscribers take precedence over 
Docs Around the Clock customers. Reimbursements 
for services may be awarded from the original contract 
holder. DocWagon is not responsible for refusal of ser-
vice from other Docs Around the Clock participants, 
such as CrashCart, Wuxing Prosperity Gold, or other 
unnamed health-service providers participating in the 
program. 
>	
In the bad old days, if you walked into a competitor’s 
emergency room and flashed your DocWagon card, they 
had the right to dump you out on the street in a pool 
of your own fluids. Then CrashCart started accepting 
competitors’ contracts, though with a slight “out-of-
network administration fee” tacked on, and a new way 
of making nuyen was born. Now, if you don’t have a 
contract with the emergency room, you only get dumped 
if you can’t afford the services up front. Your provider 
should reimburse you for any difference in cost, but that 
cash comes in awful slowly, even if you’re a Platinum 
subscriber or above.
>	
Bull
>> CHROME FLESH <<
<< FIXING WHAT'S BROKE    29


===== PDF page 31 =====
I HAVE CHOSEN  
BASIC SERVICE
Basic service is best suited for those who are exploring 
different levels of coverage or looking to cover gaps in 
corporate insurance. Basic coverage offers a value-cen-
tric option to subscribers who are sure of their good 
health and not suffering from pre-existing conditions. 
Basic service may also be offered as part of a sever-
ance packet or unemployment compensation negoti-
ation. The current subscription fee is 5,000 nuyen per 
year, payable in advance. Payment plans are available 
but may incur interest and service fees depending on 
subscriber’s risk factors and a standard System Identifi-
cation Number history check. 
Basic members receive an AR identification card 
to present at DocWagon facilities. This card must be 
shown for uninterrupted service. Basic members may 
upgrade to an ID bracelet, RFID chip, or biometric iden-
tification algorithm for a nominal fee. If the ID card is 
lost or stolen, a new one will be reissued at no charge 
to the subscriber. Basic memberships are non-transfer-
rable. Refunds will not be given in the event of a Basic 
subscriber’s death during the service year. DocWagon 
reserves the right to nullify a Basic service contract at 
any time for any reason.
>	
Customers who stay at Basic but upgrade to one of the 
other ID methods usually get a refurbished identification 
piece instead of a new one. The information from 
the previous owner is supposed to be scrubbed, but 
sometimes you get one that was done on a Friday 
afternoon or something. It’s a good basis for a little 
identity theft, whether you want to craft a new SIN out of 
it or charge some expensive medical procedures to the 
other guy’s account.
>	
Empty
Most expenses are paid directly out of pocket by 
Basic subscribers. Once the 5,000-nuyen annual fee is 
matched, discounts on higher tiers become available. 
Service agents will also review a Basic subscriber’s pre-
vious years to suggest the best plan for the value. Basic 
subscribers receive discounted services during seasonal 
sales, inventory reduction sales, and other promotion-
al periods. Basic subscribers have access to emergency 
DocWagon and wellness clinics. Basic access also allows 
interaction with DocWagon personnel and in-network 
discounts for preventive services. In high-traffic loca-
tions, DocWagon reserves the right to offer priority ser-
vice to premium subscriber levels. Service delays may 
allow for account credits depending upon the circum-
stances of the delay.
>	
Assuming you don’t die in the waiting room.
>	
Traveler Jones
>	
Is it just me, or does it seem like Basic service is essentially 
the same as not being a subscriber but with an annual fee?
>	
Hard Exit
>	
The main difference is that with Basic coverage, DocWagon 
can’t flat out refuse you service. They can put you at the 
bottom of the list, especially if you have “not being a 
human” as an ongoing condition, but if you die in the clinic, 
that’s going to cause their franchise some trouble. 
>	
Empty
>	
Fraggin’ Humanis is everywhere.
>	
Hannibelle
>	
I used to work with a doctor who was convinced that 
every ork was either in a go-gang or a shadowrunner.
>	
Butch
>	
I’ve been refused service for that very reason. Lost a 
perfectly good set of executive armor that way.
>	
OrkCE0
Basic subscribers upgrading to a higher level of ser-
vice may qualify for a credit. New subscribers may take 
advantage of promotional pricing and incentives to up-
grade their service. Please speak to your DocWagon 
service agent to see if you qualify for an upgrade. Up-
grades not available in local markets. Check local bylaws 
to check if upgrade credits are available in your area. 
Higher levels of service may not be exchanged for an 
equal amount of Basic service.
>	
Something I’ve seen these days is corporate health 
insurance only covering employees while they are on 
corporate property. Renraku started the practice back 
when the arco wasn’t full of killer robots or creepy bugs or 
creepy killer robot bugs. Old hires still have full coverage, 
but new hires can get screwed if they get hit by a bus on 
the way to work. Basic coverage like this at least pays for 
DocWagon to keep you alive so they can dump you on the 
company clinic’s doorstep.
>	
Plan 9
>	
Don’t let NurseNancy get you down. If you’ve got Basic 
coverage it’s still better than nothing, especially here in 
Seattle. The Surgeon Director for the western division is a 
native. Namaste Wild sounds like a street name, but she’s 
carved out a reputation as a nasty mama Bear shaman. 
Her dad was a well-known Neo-A back in the day and 
she’s still got a bit of his attitude. She might work for a 
corporation but she still cares about helping people 
more than cutting services to fatten the profit margin. I’ve 
seen DocWagon employees here break most of the rules 
NurseNancy laid out to save a life.
>	
Butch
>> CHROME FLESH <<
30    FIXING WHAT'S BROKE >>


===== PDF page 32 =====
I HAVE CHOSEN GOLD SERVICE
DocWagon prides itself on being the gold standard of 
health service providers. Our Gold subscribers expe-
rience this firsthand when they visit one of our thou-
sands of clinics located throughout the world. We’ve 
provided memorable service to Gold subscribers for 
over thirty years. A Gold subscription currently costs 
25,000 nuyen per year and comes with several up-
grades over the Basic subscription service. The ma-
jority of our subscribers opt for the Gold level, and 
we want you to see why it’s the most popular choice. 
You can look forward to annual health visits as part 
of your subscription fee. Gold subscribers get great 
discounts on blood tests, physicals, and other preven-
tative medicine. Gold subscribers flourish by being 
well-informed about their health and knowing about 
any potential risks before disaster strikes. Pre-existing 
conditions are covered.
Subscribers at the Gold level get a photo identifi-
cation card as well as our classic CodeBlue biomonitor 
bracelet. The bracelet may be activated anytime to signal 
DocWagon emergency personnel in the area that you 
require medical assistance. If the bracelet is damaged in 
any way, the alarm will trigger automatically. Standard 
emergency rates apply. High Threat Response is only 
available in some areas for Gold subscribers. Upgrades 
to RFID implants and biometric algorithm are available at 
a nominal add-on fee.
>	
HTR sold separately, huh? What a rip-off.
>	
Hard Exit
>	
Depending on your opposition, ambulance sirens might 
be enough to scare them off. Just don’t expect them to 
come in guns blazing and haul your hoop off the stove.
>	
Hannibelle
DocWagon understands how tight family budgets 
can be, and Gold subscribers enjoy a ten-percent dis-
count on extended care, often the difference between 
financial ruin and staying above water for many peo-
ple. DocWagon provides excellent care for the value. 
Gold subscribers also have unlimited access to our ur-
gent-care clinics and emergency room visits. We guar-
antee once an alert is triggered that the subscriber will 
be secured in the closest clinic or the treatment will be 
fully covered by DocWagon. Gold subscribers do pay for 
emergency services like HTR situations, as well as death 
compensation for emergency services personnel. Be-
cause the subscriber or the next of kin are responsible 
for these expenses, Gold subscribers must have at least 
one additional System Identification Number attached 
to the account as an emergency contact.
>	
That ten percent on extended care can also apply to 
certain body modifications, so long as you can convince 
the doc they are for legitimate business purposes. Easy 
to do when it’s a datajack or a cyberlimb, less so for bone 
lacing or a cybergun. 
>	
Clockwork
>	
It’s usually better to put some random SIN down as your 
next of kin and let some unfortunate slot pay for all those 
extra expenses on your behalf.
>	
Rigger X
>	
They all have names. Some of them even have families. 
Had families.
>	
Cayman
I HAVE CHOSEN  
PLATINUM SERVICE
Platinum service was created to meet subscriber de-
mands for an all-encompassing service. Health needs 
change daily, and our subscribers wanted an option 
that provided maximum flexibility. We were happy to 
provide the option to our strongest customers. Plati-
num coverage is currently available at 50,000 nuyen 
per year. The fee may be paid in a lump sum at the be-
ginning of coverage, or paid over the duration of the 
coverage, with a slight increase for processing and con-
venience. Platinum also allows for several discounts on 
products within the DocWagon umbrella, such as first 
aid training through Tactical Medical Solutions.
>	
Platinum service was created because shadowrunners 
made up the majority of DocWagon’s initial subscriber 
list. They put this sheen of exclusivity on this level to mask 
the fact that most people who can afford this are making 
way more money than your average wage slave, but not 
enough to have a keycard to the executive john. Crime 
lords need treatment too, and the price you pay for this 
service is the price DocWagon collects for looking the 
other way.
>	
Plan 9
>	
What do you mean initial? Literally every piece of advice I 
read when starting in the biz began with “Get a DocWagon 
contract now.”
>	
Slamm-0!
Under the Platinum contract, nearly all basic medical 
needs are covered without additional cost to the subscriber. 
Doctor visits, regular check-ups, medications, and pre-ex-
isting conditions are all taken care of for the Platinum sub-
scriber at their convenience. Subscribers at this level get a 
complimentary RFID chip implant to monitor health history 
in addition to the standard identification cards. Subscribers 
>> CHROME FLESH <<
<< FIXING WHAT'S BROKE    31


===== PDF page 33 =====
may opt out of the RFID program, but must then pay for 
an RFID chip to be installed later should they change their 
mind. The RFID chip can prompt the subscriber to trigger 
an emergency alert by sending a simple message to the 
owner’s commlink. This allows for an emergency pickup 
without having to moving a muscle to trigger a wristband 
or other signaling device—a very popular option for clients 
in areas with high kidnapping rates.
>	
Nope. NOPE.
>	
Snopes
>	
How easy is it to track someone using a DocWagon RFID?
>	
Traveler Jones
>	
The frequency modulates pretty well, but it can be done 
if you know they have one. DocWagon knows this is 
an older technology, so they quietly try to get folks to 
upgrade to the biometrics with a “free” upgrade thrown 
in with whatever promotion they’ve got going that month.
>	
Rigger X
Long-term care receives a fifty percent reduction in 
cost, though Super-Platinum Clinics are not available at 
this subscription level. Installation and maintenance of le-
gal cyberware are included as part of this package. Emer-
gency situations also see significant savings. HTR is cov-
ered by Platinum accounts, though death compensation 
is still charged to the subscriber. Platinum subscribers may 
also be eligible for rate discounts if they go a certain pe-
riod of time without needing emergency services. With 
four free resuscitations a year, Platinum subscribers have 
plenty of chances to get a new lease on life.
I HAVE CHOSEN  
SUPER-PLATINUM SERVICE
For those who have executive tastes and expect world-
class service, we offer Super-Platinum service as our 
most extensive tier. Super-Platinum subscribers have 
access to the best medical care money can buy. These 
subscribers are at the leading edge of modern med-
icine, using innovative techniques and cutting-edge 
technology to improve their health and wellness to 
the best levels they will ever have. Super-Platinum 
subscribers represent a diverse group—professional 
athletes, corporate executives whose company literal-
ly cannot afford for them to take a sick day, and many 
other metahumans whose livelihoods hinge on their 
bodily health—united by their devotion to their well-be-
ing. DocWagon rewards that devotion with services 
unavailable at lower levels. Super-Platinum subscribers 
belong to the world’s most elite health club. This level 
of coverage currently costs 500,000 nuyen per year. 
The fee may be paid in a lump sum at the beginning 
of coverage, or paid on a payment plan with a slight 
increase for processing and convenience. 
DocWagon offers a wide variety of personal physi-
cians and full medical staff that are on call twenty-four 
hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year for on-
site consultations, treatment, and care. Super-Platinum 
subscribers also receive a complimentary biometric al-
gorithm in addition to their identification card. The algo-
rithm allows any DocWagon clinic immediate access to 
a patient’s current condition as well as their health histo-
ry. With the algorithm, the need for monitoring bracelets 
or chip implants are left in the past. If the subscriber’s 
body parameters go beyond the normal levels, a mes-
sage is sent via commlink to the subscribers asking them 
if they are in need of assistance. If the subscriber doesn’t 
send a reply within sixty seconds, the emergency recov-
ery alarm is triggered. If the biometrics indicate the sub-
scriber is at risk of dying, a High Threat Response team is 
immediately dispatched to recover the Super-Platinum 
subscriber.
>	
You still have to pay out of pocket at this level?
>	
Bull
>	
If you can afford to drop the money for a Super-Platinum 
membership, you can afford whatever fees the doc will 
charge you. DocWagon covers it if you go to one of their 
SP Clinics. You only pay if they come to visit you in your 
private island or on Zurich Orbital or wherever you hang 
your billion-nuyen hat.
>	
Mr. Bonds
>	
When they first introduced the biometrics, they had to 
readjust the levels that triggered emergency response 
because the people paying for the tech could also afford 
designer drugs and other body-changing experiences the 
designers didn’t anticipate. The biometric records are kept 
under some serious security at the home office, but an 
analysis of the patterns could reveal the types of vices a 
high-level exec is into for the purposes of blackmail.
>	
Empty
Whether you choose to receive care in one of our 
Super-Platinum clinics around the world or choose from 
one of our Platinum providers to provide service at your 
home or penthouse, rest assured that your health is in 
the expert hands of the top minds in the field. DocWagon 
seeks out the best of the best for our most elite subscrib-
ers. Ongoing health concerns or life-changing events 
are handled with the same amount of expertise. Studies 
show that Super-Platinum subscribers experience a fif-
teen percent increase of quality of life after joining the 
program at this level (some exceptions apply, please fol-
low this [link] for more details). Emergency visits to our 
extensive network of clinics require no additional pay-
ment at this level. High Threat Response extractions are 
also covered by your annual fee. Our top-tier subscribers 
receive five free resuscitations per year. 
>> CHROME FLESH <<
32    FIXING WHAT'S BROKE >>


===== PDF page 34 =====
>	
Getting certified as a Super-Platinum provider is no joke. 
We’re talking world-famous neurosurgeons, experts in 
biotechnology, professors of thaumaturgy at MIT&T. They 
may not have scary reputations like the Tir Ghosts, but if 
you pay for this level of coverage and whoever DocWagon 
sends to treat you can’t cure you, it can’t be done.
>	
Butch
>	
Those clinics are secure facilities that may look all peaceful 
but are built by the same companies that put together 
high-level research labs. There’s a lot of nasty security 
and black IC hidden under those rolling hills and pleasant 
hedgerows.
>	
Rigger X
>	
The top Super-Platinum clinics as of this writing are in 
Tenochtitlán, Melbourne, Kyoto, Hong Kong, and Zurich. 
There are rumored to be two more, one in South America 
and one in Antarctica. 
>	
Hard Exit
>	
There may be an eighth SP clinic soon, as soon as they 
can get the orbital ready to go up.
>	
Empty
>	
I’m surprised there isn’t an SP clinic at their headquarters 
in Atlanta.
>	
Netcat
>	
Too many people going in and out of the building. You can 
have a top security building or a bustling international 
corporate headquarters. Not both.
>	
Mr. Bonds
>	
I’ve heard that some of the top-tier clinics that only 
service Super-Platinum subscribers consider leónization 
treatments as a resuscitation for billing purposes. 
DocWagon would like to close that particular loophole but 
doesn’t want to upset its richest providers. They have to 
do it subtly, because they don’t want the doctors who do it 
to walk over to a competitor and take their big, expensive 
client list with them.
>	
Mika
I hope I was able to clear up any questions you might 
have about your level of service. DocWagon thanks you 
for your patronage, and we hope that we get to save 
your life sometime!
REQUIEM FOR  
A STREET DOC
POSTED BY: SUNSHINE 
Originally posted @KSAF on 4/13/2077
There’s a dirty little secret that most media sites hide. 
Famous people already have their obituaries written. 
Somewhere, tucked away in a file in Ares’ Matrix space, 
there’s a whole pre-fab love letter about Damien Knight. 
Sure, he’s probably going to outlive this site, the readers, 
and the reporters here, but if a chicken bone gets lucky 
in a way that hundreds of shadowrunners have not, the 
deckers on staff will have his virtual memorial up in 
seconds. All they have to do is add a few details and 
quietly edit it as more information comes in. That’s why 
there’s a cascade of pages whenever someone big dies. 
The pre-written stuff acts as a placeholder, and then the 
think pieces come out a day or two later once the me-
dia’s digested how the bigwig died.
Most regular people don’t get this luxury. At best, 
there’s a brief mention on the death tab of the daily 
neighborhood screamsheet or a small memorial at their 
favorite watering hole. Only executives get real death 
notices anymore, because nobody who runs the cor-
porate intranets wants to bum out workers and damage 
morale by talking about dead employees. Not to men-
tion the fact that in many corporations, such notices 
were often used for cover when an employee was ex-
tracted by a shadowrun team to keep other employees 
from jumping ship. Better to just stop mentioning them 
and let word of mouth pass through the natural chan-
nels, like whispers in the hall and curt explanations to 
confused interns asking why the mail is piling up on 
somebody’s desk. 
So it went in the halls of Renraku recently when Dr. 
Higashiyama Misao passed away at the age of 53. Dr. 
Higashiyama worked in Renraku’s bio-logistics depart-
ment. She designed the interfaces where datajacks 
connect to meat brains and made sure that the neural 
impulses from brains were read by those cyberlimbs that 
shadowrunners so covet. She was diagnosed with cer-
vical cancer five years ago. It went into remission two 
years ago, but came back with a vengeance last Decem-
ber. She died from complications three days ago. I only 
found out about it because a mutual contact heard she 
died.
Most of us knew Dr. Higashiyama by a different name. 
She’s worked on hundreds of shadowrunners in Seattle 
over the past twenty-three years. Contacting her meant 
a trip to Pike Place Market, ordering two California rolls 
with a dab of wasabi from the sushi place in the third 
stall of the food court, then waiting at least four hours 
for her to send you a message telling you to meet her in 
the old Continental Building two blocks south. Turns out 
she owned the Continental and the sushi place. After 
>> CHROME FLESH <<
<< FIXING WHAT'S BROKE    33


===== PDF page 35 =====
her death, the stall closed and the Continental’s up for 
sale. Foxwife, as most runners know her, left few traces 
after she died.
>	
Frag. I’m gonna outlive everyone, aren’t I?
>	
Bull
>	
Don’t worry, pops. I’ll most likely kill you in the morning.
>	
Slamm-0!
>	
Did you make that reference on purpose?
>	
Bull
>	
And try to cheer up my mortal enemy? That would require 
me to have feelings like a human.
>	
Slamm-0!
I got to know Foxwife back when I was just a hungry 
journalist instead of mixing and matching these strange 
part-time jobs that keep the lights on. She was also hun-
gry, a scientist looking to see how her equipment worked 
in the field. Beyond that, I think she knew that her place 
in one of the most traditional Japanacorps was already 
determined for her. Her academic knowhow and design 
put her as an important person in her department, but the 
sarariman club would never let her into an executive of-
fice. Selling cyberware on the streets offered a revenue 
stream unmatched by a cost-of-living increase each year.
She never asked me to reveal her identity after her 
death. Truth be told, I’m about halfway through the sec-
ond bottle of the type of wine she preferred when we 
would talk about how she fell into the business. She 
didn’t have any family to worry about shaming back at 
Renraku, but she didn’t know it was going to play out 
like that when she started back then. She chose her 
street name to make sure that if she were discovered, 
her husband and children could escape the shame of her 
second job. She never found a husband or had children. 
There were a few people who knew about what she did 
and probably helped her get some of the pieces she in-
stalled, but unless they have a drunk journo with a dead-
line, they are likely going to stay anonymous.
>	
So you admit to violating the trust of one of your sources?
>	
Trickster’s Daughter
>	
Who let the comedian in here?
>	
Hannibelle
>	
It’s not who she says she is, but how she says it.
>	
Man-of-Many-Names
This also struck me as an opportunity to look at the 
big picture. Street docs are here to stay. Not everyone 
can afford a DocWagon contract or hole up in a corpo-
rate cyberclinic for a few weeks while their body adjusts 
to the new cybernetic implant. Getting runners back on 
their feet is an important part of street culture, and these 
men and women do the best they can with tough dead-
lines, worse tools, and patients who have nowhere else 
to go. Where do they come from? How do they survive? 
Why do they stay in the game?
>	
Running is all about trust. You trust your crew to have 
your back when things get rough, but who do you trust 
when you’re out cold and have your guts exposed to the 
filthy Seattle air? A good street doc is worth her weight in 
superconductors. RIP, Foxwife.
>	
Kat o’ Nine Tales
Few people set out to be a street doc. It was never a 
part of any of those career surveys I took as a kid. Most 
people fall into it through a mix of rotten luck, bad tim-
ing, and poor circumstance. Smart cookies can make a 
decent living at it, even if it’s not as prestigious as work-
ing in an official clinic or being on call for a corporate 
executive’s health issues. It’s a little less dangerous than 
running, since most of the shooting is over by the time 
runners need to be patched up or rebuilt. 
Many street docs have some sort of legitimate med-
ical training. Some get it from a year or two in medical 
school before something happens to cause them to 
drop out. They might not be able to hack it. They might 
get distracted by personal issues. They might get pulled 
into debt too quickly and start working on the street 
to make ends meet. Their classes might suffer or they 
might decide that the money they make now is better 
than what they’ll be making in the future. A little training 
is better than none, and nobody’s going to ask to see a 
street doc’s credentials if they are gutshot in the lobby.
>	
Ain’t docs supposed to be rich? 
>	
Sticks
>	
Many medical schools put their students in a six-figure 
debt to start to tie them to the corp, backing the school 
for life. Students are broke as a general guideline, so it 
doesn’t take much to rack up additional debt during the 
years you’re in school. Sure, you could work your way 
through school spending thirty-plus hours a week behind 
the counter of a Stuffer Shack, or you could slip some 
prescription codes to a street dealer for a couple grand 
between drinks at the bar. If you get caught, you’re out, 
but then you’re well on your way to being a criminal 
mastermind anyway.
>	
Empty
>	
You say that like you’re speaking from experience.
>	
Man-of-Many-Names
Some street docs make it through all the hoops of 
becoming a real doctor but then wash out because of 
>> CHROME FLESH <<
34    FIXING WHAT'S BROKE >>


===== PDF page 36 =====
professional mistakes. Maybe they let a high-profile cli-
ent die on the table. Maybe they got hooked on pain-
killers or BTLs to take the edge off of a high-pressure 
gig. Maybe they got caught taking bribes from a pharma 
corporation for pushing their drugs over the competi-
tors’. Finishing med school is the first step in a doctor’s 
career. It doesn’t take much to push a doctor out of the 
light and onto the streets.
Though the military encourages medical personnel 
to join its ranks, the sheer need they have to keep sol-
diers in the fight means they often train their own med-
ics. Veterans naturally drift to the shadows because of 
their combat training. Medics often follow. Sometimes 
the bonds of a unit pull everyone onto the street. Some-
times a medic starts out helping his own unit and then 
realizes he can make money working for other crews 
too. The difference between a shadowrunner and a mer-
cenary can be very thin. But they all need to be stitched 
up at some point in their career.
>	
I’ve seen bar fights erupt over mercs being called 
shadowrunners and vice versa. Be careful what you call 
people, especially after everyone’s six drinks in.
>	
Hannibelle
Street docs exist who can keep a day job in the med-
ical industry and work in the shadows at night. They 
often have to keep their double lives separate. If their 
corporate overlords knew about their second job, they’d 
be quickly fired or labeled as a security threat. Enemies 
looking to get back at a street doc could throw the cor-
porate half of their life into chaos, especially if the street 
doc has family members unaware of what they do off 
the clock. Foxwife held this type of career together for 
many years, but in the end you could see it was wearing 
on her. Moonlighting street docs never get any time off.
The squatters and the gutterpunks in the combat 
zones need someone to keep them on their feet. Street 
docs often come out of free clinics and patient-outreach 
programs that want to keep doing the noble thing when 
it comes to medicine. Someone has to pay for those 
programs to stay open. Counting on the generosity of 
official corporate sponsorship is a one-way ticket to 
showing up to padlocked doors because this quarter’s 
profits are down. Taking money from runners who need 
medical assistance not only launders the money, but it 
also absolves the soul of working with shadowy patrons. 
That’s the theory, at least.
One of the easiest ways to become a street doc is to 
just start working as one. A medical degree is not actu-
ally required. Diploma-mill degrees can be had for the 
price of the latest Neil the Ork Barbarian season. Few cus-
tomers will care that Upper Tacoma University is noth-
ing more than a Matrix address and a credit account. 
Selling health powders and wellness machines make a 
great front for a street doc. Variable inventory also helps 
hide money from illegal sources. A street doc might re-
cord a cyberlimb as a few boxes worth of Cherry Bomb 
Vita-Soy to keep up appearances. These sorts of outfits 
are expected to pack up and disappear without a trace 
anyway. 
>	
I cracked the UTU host a few weeks ago. Adding fake 
degrees can really put a convincing sheen on a fake SIN. 
If anyone wants a Doctorate or Master’s or something, let 
me know.
>	
Netcat
>	
Oooh, I always wanted to go back to school!
>	
SEAtac Sweetie
Many mages get snapped up by runner crews, but 
magical healing is always in demand. The demands of 
following a totem might interfere with the loyalty re-
quired by corporations. Those with unique magical skills 
might find them put to better use before and after a run 
where a stray bullet is less likely to cut short a career. 
Mages can be their own security, mixing in manabolts 
with healing spells to protect whatever space they’ve 
marked out to sell their wares. Not every mage can 
hack running the shadows, but their ability to use mag-
ic means there are still plenty of ways to make money 
there.
The rare runner who hits the mythical big score and 
retires rarely stays away from the street for long. A run-
ner with that kind of cash and street cred can find be-
coming a street doc an easy transition. Even if they don’t 
have the proper medical skills, they can usually hire 
somebody who does. Ex-runners have all the contacts 
in place that a street doc needs to get up and running. 
They can also probably call on a crew or two to lock in 
some inventory ... or even generate some new business 
with a few strategic strikes.
Getting into the street doc biz often seems easy 
enough. There are ways in that I didn’t even cover. Not 
everyone quite understands the different things street 
docs do in their backroom offices. Installing cyberware, 
removing bullets, and fencing medical equipment are 
just a few of the ways the street doc gets paid. The more 
services a doc can perform, the more money they make. 
The more versatile the doc, the more valuable they be-
come to multiple crews. Multiple crews counting on a 
street doc means that doc is more likely to stay in busi-
ness longer. 
The most common service a street doc performs is 
patching up wounds. There are plenty of people who 
don’t want to deal with the red tape of going to a hospi-
tal or clinic to deal with injuries sustained during a shad-
owrun. Many legitimate medical facilities are required 
by law to report bullet wounds to the local security firm, 
or, at the very least, their security branch. Between the 
risk of capture and not wanting to hang out in a waiting 
room with potential witnesses, street docs prove their 
worth by fixing runners’ mistakes.
>> CHROME FLESH <<
<< FIXING WHAT'S BROKE    35


===== PDF page 37 =====
When a samurai wants a new wiz piece of gear bolted 
into her body, the street doc is the first place she goes. 
She might bring the gear to the doc, or the doc might 
have a piece all lined up ready to install. Sometimes the 
surgery takes place in whatever storefront the doc has 
rented, and sometimes the doc has a separate facility 
to do the work. Either way, the table and instruments 
are pretty clean, because nobody wants the installation 
to go wrong. Infections, rejections, and other compli-
cations can muck up both the street doc’s day and rep 
pretty badly, so the more prep work involved, the less 
likely it is that something goes wrong. 
>	
Most docs will also offer to buy used parts. Some of them 
get resold, some of them are kept around for replacement 
bits. One doc I knew in Texas sold them to an art gallery 
owner who repainted them and sold them to rich people 
as art pieces for ten times what the tech was worth.
>	
Picador
Recovering from a surgery doesn’t happen instantly. 
Even with the best care money can buy, the patient is 
usually down for the count for at least forty-eight hours. 
If the street doc doesn’t have an on-site facility to use 
for recovery, they usually have a deal with a nearby hotel 
where the patient can lie low while the doc keeps tabs 
on the healing process. That might mean a coffin hotel 
that gets hosed out between patients, or it could be a 
relative’s apartment with a spare bedroom. 
Runners often turn to street docs when their cyber-
ware needs repairs. This can be as simple as digging a 
slug out from a firearm or as complex as adjusting the 
maintenance medications to keep bioware functioning 
properly. Some docs charge for the process on a per-vis-
it basis, others offer service plans and warranties just 
like real cyberclinics do. Make sure to know the policy 
after the installation just in case the body modification 
doesn’t work the way it’s intended.
>	
In a pinch, putting a gun in somebody’s face can work as 
an “extended warranty.” That usually means the end of the 
relationship with that contact, but since they do crappy 
work anyway, it’s no big deal.
>	
Kane
>	
Get the details about this as soon as you can. It’s up to 
you to protect your chummer while they are strung out on 
painkillers. You might have to turn that coffin motel into a 
safehouse.
>	
Picador
>	
It’s usually a lot easier to just rent out the whole block of 
coffins if that’s the case. The ones that aren’t full of runners 
make good storage for supplies and ammo.
>	
Hard Exit
>> CHROME FLESH <<
36    FIXING WHAT'S BROKE >>


===== PDF page 38 =====
Cyberware and resuscitations provide big-ticket 
items to keep the lights on in a street doc’s office. A 
steady stream of cash usually comes in thanks to the 
drugs that flow from the office to the street. Street docs 
able to mix their own supplies get very popular very 
quickly. Ones who still have connections to legitimate 
suppliers can get rare drugs and charge a premium for 
their stock. Offices also work well as drop points for 
street dealers and even neutral ground where go-gangs 
come together to talk prices.
As long as those gangers are in the office, the street 
doc might want to consider buying some of their ill-gotten 
gains. Secondhand cyberware is a viable market for any-
one on the street, but docs who can repair any damage 
from the previous owner can make a decent profit flipping 
secondhand hands. A few docs are even willing to accept 
cyberware in a pawn-shop-style system, where someone 
who needs cash now can get a loan on cyber that the doc 
holds until the poor sucker can pay back the loan. 
It isn’t just chrome that can end up in a street doc’s 
display case. Cultured organs, modified bio-organics, and 
even old-school stolen kidneys are fair game for a street 
doc willing to dip into organ trafficking. A few refuse 
outright because they fear getting a bad reputation, but 
the ones who come out of corporate backgrounds often 
use their labs as their offices to allow custom orders right 
there in the storefront. A specialist might be able to deal 
in used organs, or the street doc might even hire a crew to 
steal a specific type for the right cells to match.
A few spooky stories suggest street docs who still work 
for their old companies as a front to experiment on unsus-
pecting slobs who walk in through the front door. There’s 
some truth to the idea, especially when markets get flood-
ed with body modifications that flop in general sales, but 
most corporations prefer to control their research and de-
velopment in-house. Fronting a street doc offers too many 
risks for any official projects. Someone running an off-the-
books experiment seems far more likely.
>	
If you want to frag a street doc’s reputation real bad, start 
spreading rumors about their connections to Tamanous. 
Real or not, nobody wants to end up in an ice bath with 
a new scar on their back instead of getting some new 
cybereyes installed.
>	
Snopes
>	
Even if that story wasn’t older than Bull, no street doc who 
wanted to stay in business would pull that kind of move. 
Maybe if some poor slot dies on the table, they’d call up 
the harvesters to disappear the body, but they’d never 
take viable organs from someone with a chance to live.
>	
Hannibelle
>	
So we don’t believe people can be corrupted by money? 
Remind me what world it is that we live in.
>	
Bull
Though they might sound like independent oper-
ators, street docs inevitably end up working for some-
body. The web of suppliers and clients usually draws 
them into its middle—very few people in the Sixth World 
call their own shots. When looking for a street doc to rely 
on, being aware of who they answer to can make a world 
of difference. Shadowrunners make and break allianc-
es all the time, which can be the difference between a 
street doc stitching up the team or quietly calling a cor-
porate cleanup squad while everyone is in the waiting 
room. I reached out to a few contacts around the Sixth 
World to show how they stay in business.
>	
And I’m sure you weren’t justly compensated for such 
advertisement?
>	
OrkCE0
>	
A couple of them, I had to pull some teeth. You want a 
reputation where a lot of people know you, but not so big 
a reputation that the young punks just starting out feel like 
they can pull themselves up by taking you out.
>	
Sunshine
AAA corporations have strings that hang all the way 
down to the street doc’s door. Former company men still 
have connections with their old workplace. Undercov-
er operatives shuffle excess inventory onto the street 
to hide poorly performing releases from stockholders. 
Employees sick of the corporate grind want to get back 
to doing what they loved in the first place. It costs lit-
tle for a big corporation to funnel goods to street docs, 
especially since they can easily be cut off if any sort of 
scandal might lead back to the parent company.
Foxwife hid her identity from her masters at Renraku 
to get back out into the world. The corporate life can be 
isolating and lonely. Shadowrunners often understand 
that need for a connection and bond, which can make 
their crews like families. Many of the runners who knew 
her considered her part of their family. That sense of be-
longing is a powerful feeling, stronger than drugs. Fox-
wife might not have had a family of her own, so she built 
one out of the samurai, deckers, and runners she got to 
know while she made them stronger.
>	
Are you sure about that? 
>	
Trickster’s Daughter
>	
I’m sorry, who are you? 
>	
Sunshine
Not every street doc out there has access to the 
same level of goods that Foxwife enjoyed, but I’ve heard 
of a few who cobble together a working relationship 
with below-the-radar businesses. Smaller corporations 
like to have connections to this type of individual, even 
if they might not have the funds for test clinics or secure 
>> CHROME FLESH <<
<< FIXING WHAT'S BROKE    37


===== PDF page 39 =====
black-bag facilities. Plenty of runners are happy to take a 
gamble on a new bit of chrome that might still need the 
bugs worked out. A lower price on a flashier piece is a 
big lure to a team struggling for credits. Docs connected 
to smaller companies also build relationships with teams 
that can come in handy when the big boys throw their 
weight around and look for support from some of their 
smaller partners, giving these teams the chance to step 
up to the big time.
Stella Copy Ltd. looks like a simple boutique genet-
ics firm in Paris. Avanti, the designer in charge, likes to 
make striking designs that catch the eyes of Euro fash-
ion mavens, but she’s not above working with the run-
ners in the City of Lights when she’s not dreaming up 
bizarre bioware combinations. Sometimes her models 
get compensated for whatever odd piece she installs, 
be it a chrome unicorn horn or a cyberhand with all 
thumbs, by receiving a few other pieces of alphaware 
or better gear. The rumors that Avanti rebuilds her own 
face every six months to avoid too much attention are 
still unsubstantiated.
Organized crime has their hands in this particular 
pie as well. The Yakuza and Triads tend to smuggle 
in cyberware that was collected from their corporate 
connections or stolen when the opportunity presented 
itself. The Mob and Tongs work more in secondhand 
gear they sell off to recover money lost from markers 
they’ve called in. Street docs connected to these orga-
nizations can usually get better gear at lower prices, so 
long as the customer isn’t squeamish about the origins 
of the product.
Marco “Red Sauce” Valentino operates out of one of 
the oldest Italian restaurants in Chicago. The interiors are 
classic, but Marco does his business in the basement. He 
earned his reputation by working as a street doc during 
the big bug takeover of the city. Most of his medical ed-
ucation came from the Matrix and learning on the job. 
He got his nickname from his habit of getting informa-
tion for his family by removing pieces of cyberware from 
the people who needed to talk without the benefit of 
anesthetic. 
Local gangs and street docs often end up in bed 
together. The line between a street doc and a fixer be-
comes very thin in these cases, since the gangs usually 
pay for medical services in stolen merchandise rather 
than cold hard nuyen. Gangs tend to get in brutal fights 
more commonly than runner teams, which keeps docs 
busy. Street docs might get too wrapped up in gang 
business and not have time for more clients—or inspire a 
bit of possessiveness if a doc works on people not allied 
or loyal to the gang.
Vladivostok offers little in the way of scenery, but 
the surgeon-masked Blanks are one of the more colorful 
gangs I’ve seen. The more intricately painted the surgi-
cal mask, the higher up the food chain the gang mem-
ber is. Dr. Blank, the leader, has a mask that walks the 
line between the best graffiti you’ve ever seen and the 
mempo of a samurai warrior. He teaches his gang all the 
things he learned as a combat medic, which makes their 
raids bloody and efficient. Dr. Blank has been around for 
nearly twenty-five years, with whispers emerging every 
few years or so that he’s passed on the mask and retired 
to someplace a lot warmer.
Street doc clinics can also be useful to government 
operatives working under cover in a hostile territory. Few 
people question a doctor’s credentials, especially those 
working for exchange programs like Doctors Without 
Borders or Sick Sixth World. The doctors may be legit, 
but the support personnel might have agenda supplied 
by an embassy or espionage organization. Deep-cover 
versions of this type of office might try to construct a 
backstory saying they’ve been around for years. The ser-
vice might be wonderful, but keeping a close watch on 
what gets said in an office is never a bad idea.
A favorite identity used by undercover CAS opera-
tives was Pat McGillicuddy. The doctor appeared on sev-
eral different locations in DeeCee, even though descrip-
tions or images never quite matched. McGillicuddy was 
described as different genders, skin colors, and even a 
different metatype or two during the course of his/her 
medical career. He/she hasn’t been seen since 2070, so 
perhaps the good doctor finally retired to a nice private 
island paid for by all the runners who gave money to the 
cause.
>	
Isn’t this what happened with Shining Cross? All of their 
free clinics in the NAN were shown to be staffed with CIA 
and UCAS intelligence personnel. Rumor has it a lot of the 
same faces (and different names) are popping up working 
at Sick Sixth World clinics recently.
>	
Thorn
>	
Oh, come on! “Dr. McGillicuddy”? Was “Special Agent J. 
Daniels” already taken by the UCAS?
>	
Bull
Enterprising street docs sometimes take a page from 
their more legitimate colleagues and come together as a 
collective. The good news about these collectives is that 
they tend to contain shared resources and referrals. If a 
doctor has a speciality in cybereyes, another street doc 
can refer the patient along for a better price and quality 
of installation. The downside to collectives occurs when 
they become monopolies. Price fixing, muscle tactics, 
and dirty tricks can put a lock on medical services in an 
area. Though I guess that’s not all bad for the runners 
who might get hired by the docs to put the remaining 
competition out of business.
Bleeker Street Medical sounds professional, but it’s a 
cross between a peer network and a street-doc alliance. 
It began when a trio of street docs banded together and 
hired some runners to shake off the gangers that had tak-
en over their part of Phoenix. The runners left once the 
>> CHROME FLESH <<
38    FIXING WHAT'S BROKE >>


===== PDF page 148 =====
most part appear just like their natural counterparts, 
making them much harder to detect.
REPROGRAMMING  
HARD NANITES
One of the advantages offered only by hard nanites 
is the ability to reprogram hard nanite systems. Hard 
nanites are reprogrammed through the body’s own 
conductive tissues by a hard nanohive.
When hard nanites are reprogrammed, they change 
their type, becoming a new kind of hard nanoware. Re-
programming itself requires the hard nanites to suspend 
whatever operation they were performing and receive 
their new instructions. A hard nanohive does not reduce 
the Rating of its nanites.
HARD NANITES AND THE 
MATRIX
Hard nanites use conductive tissue and other surfaces 
and UV radiation to communicate. They do not use the 
Matrix, and so they do not show up as icons in the Ma-
trix. Hard nanites can be indirectly affected by hackers via 
a hard nanohive, a devices that has its own Matrix icon.
NANOWARE 
SYSTEMS
HARD NANOWARE 
SYSTEMS
The following are the nanoware systems on the mar-
ket that are certified against CFD infection.
ANTI-RAD
Popular among spacers and workers in high-ambi-
ent radiation environments such as the SOX, anti-rad 
nanoware is a new development and quite expensive. 
This free-floating system scours the body via the lym-
phatic system for telltale isotope traces, free radicals, 
and radiation damaged cells. Anti-rad nanites bind 
contaminants in a solvent cage and inject damaged or 
mutated cells with a compound that induces cell death. 
The anti-rad nanites then attach to the waste and trans-
port it to the nearest lymph node to be processed and 
evacuated normally.
Anti-rad nanoware reduces the Power of radiation 
damage by its Rating. Anti-rad is intended as a prophy-
lactic measure and is unable to eliminate metastasized 
cancers or pre-existing cell mutations.
CONTROL RIG BOOSTER
This specialized breed of neural amplifier nanites 
are designed to complement implanted control rigs 
(p. 452, SR5). The nanites organize themselves into 
artificial neural pathways, building and maintaining 
a network of nanofilaments. This extends the nor-
mal interface between the control rig and the mid-
dle brain to parts of the dorsolateral prefrontal cor-
tex, cerebellum, and thalamus—areas of the brain 
that manage subconscious movement, sensory in-
terpretation, and instinctive decision-making. The 
booster colony’s dedicated neural pathways allow 
a rigger to make greater use of the brain’s intuitive 
understanding of spatial positioning and capacity 
for instinctive motion control when jumped in to 
a vehicle or drone. The control rig itself translates 
the resulting neural impulses into rigging data like 
speed control, inertia handling, and so forth.
The booster applies its Rating as a dice pool modifier 
to your Vehicle Tests when you’re jumped into a drone 
or vehicle. It cannot be combined with the control rig 
optimization genetech.
IMPLANT MEDIC
This nanoware system is installed along with a specific 
cyberware implant. The free-floating nanites in this sys-
tem are designed to monitor the health and well-being 
of that implant, and to immediately act to repair it if any 
malfunction or damage occurs. If the nanites detect a 
problem, they work to restore the implant to its stan-
dard operating parameters by rejoining neural connec-
tions, sealing fractures, repairing circuitry, removing 
foreign bodies or damaged tissue, and so on.
An implant medic system automatically seeks to re-
pair a damaged implant. If an implant takes Matrix dam-
age, this system begins repairing it on the next Combat 
Turn, using its Rating x 2 as its Hardware + Logic dice 
pool and its Rating as its Mental limit. You can read more 
on repairing Matrix damage on p. 228, SR5.
NANITE HUNTERS
Nanite hunters seek out and destroy active nanites 
other than their own colony. By default, hunter nanites 
seek out all nanites, but they can be reprogrammed by 
the usual method for hard nanites to target nanites of 
a specific type (hard, soft, or a specific system). Repro-
gramming nanite hunters in this way never reduces the 
system’s rating.
At the end of each Combat Turn that a nanite hunt-
er system is active, make a Rating x 2 [Rating] v. Tar-
get’s Rating x 2 Test. For each net hit the hunters get, 
reduce the target nanites’ Rating by 1. The hard nanite 
hunters have a hard time targeting soft nanites, taking 
a –2 dice pool modifier when attacking them. If more 
than one valid target is available to the nanite hunters, 
the system chooses its target at random each Combat 
Turn.
Hunter nanites are unable to breach a nanohive to 
attack dormant nanite systems.
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
<< HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE    147


===== PDF page 149 =====
MARKERS
These nanites are sealed microscopic optical chips 
used for transporting valuable data without being de-
tected. Data is typically divided up and downloaded 
into multiple nanites, building in redundancy against 
nanite loss. Later, a simple blood sample is all that is 
needed to collect enough datacapsules to reconsti-
tute the data within. Markers are designed to defeat 
nanoscanners: reduce the nanoscanner’s dice pool by 
the marker’s Rating for the Detection test. Markers can 
carry one or multiple files.
NANOTATTOOS
Once injected, nanotattoo hard machines embed them-
selves as a lattice of liquid crystal microdisplays under 
the subject’s skin. A Rating 1 nanotattoo covers one limb 
or the face, Rating 2 covers half the body, and Rating 3 
covers the whole body. A nanotattoo (or “nanotat”) can 
be reprogrammed to display any image the user wishes, 
including preprogrammed animation. They can also be 
programmed to be inactive and appear indistinguish-
able from your normal skin. Reprogramming nanotats in 
this manner does not reduce its rating.
Nanotattoos can provide effective camouflage, if 
you have a full body treatment and you’re not wearing 
much, imposing a –1 dice pool modifier to Perception 
tests to detect you visually.
TAGGANTS
Unlike most nanites, taggants emit a signal that can be 
detected by a standard wireless device. This produces 
an ARO and icon in the Matrix. Taggants can be used 
to advertise the subject’s criminal convictions or legal 
status, commercial goods, political propaganda, or 
any other information programmed into the system. 
Taggants can have their icon and the information they 
broadcast changed via reprogramming—such repro-
gramming does not reduce the taggants’ rating.
TRAUMA CONTROL SYSTEM
This nanoware system seeks out and gathers around 
vital organs. Some component nanites apply elec-
tro-stimulation to the heart and respiratory muscles, 
while others regulate blood flow away from wounds 
without starving the brain of oxygen. While you’re busy 
dying from overflow damage to your Physical Condi-
tion Monitor, the TCS attempts to stabilize you every 
minute, using its Rating in place of both First Aid and 
Logic in the Stabilization Test (p. 209, SR5).
REPLICATORS
Nanoware has some disadvantages. It only has 
one function, or maybe one function at a time if you’re 
reprogramming hard nanites. It can lose its potency over time. 
It’s very expensive to buy and upkeep. But there’s one kind of 
nanite that can perform multiple roles, actually gains strength 
as it works, and best of all it’s free of charge: REPLICATORS!
Replicators are only found in CFD victims … all CFD 
victims. These nanites have been altered by the virus to let 
them build nanites of other types. They can construct both soft 
and hard nanites given sufficient raw materials, which they will 
happily take out of the victim’s food, blood, or body. The virus 
camouflages them as other types of nanites to conceal them 
and prevent detection, but the mechanism for this is unknown, 
and there still isn’t a way to detect them … until it’s too late.
So if you want a powerful nanoware system at absolutely 
no cost, contact your nearest head case and join the unknown 
but secretly growing multitudes who use replicators! Your new 
personality will thank you for it!
HARD NANOWARE SYSTEMS
NANOWARE
RATING
AVAILABILITY
COST
Anti-rad
1–6
14F
Rating x 6,000¥
Control rig booster
1–3
12F
Rating x 6,000¥
Implant medic
1–6
12F
10% of implant cost
Nanite hunters
1–6
16R
Rating x 5,000¥
Markers
1–3
12
Rating x 2,000¥
Nanotattoos
1–3
12F
Rating x 1,000¥
Taggants
1–3
12
Rating x 600¥
Trauma control system
1–6
12F
Rating x 4,000¥
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
148    HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE >>


===== PDF page 150 =====
SOFT NANOWARE 
SYSTEMS
ANTI-TOX
These nantidotes are designed to counter a broad spec-
trum of toxins. They carry active charcoal, tannic acid, 
magnesium, and other chemicals to absorb toxins from 
the digestive tract and bloodstream, and also enhance 
the body’s natural detoxification processes. Reduce 
the Power of any toxin affecting you by the nanoware’s 
Rating. If the toxin’s Power is reduced below 1, further 
effects and/or damage are halted.
Anti-tox will also protect against the effects of alco-
hol, caffeine, and other drugs. Reduce the duration of 
drugs by a factor equal to the Rating of the anti-tox sys-
tem (i.e., divide the duration by the rating).
CARCERAND-PLUS
Carcerand-plus is the nanotech version of carcerands, 
hollow molecular spheres designed to carry a drug pay-
load that they slowly dispense as they circulate the body 
and break down over time. Normal carcerands are pas-
sive, designed to break down within a narrow period.
Carcerand-plus triggers under either of two condi-
tions. It can be tailored to respond to a certain chemical 
in the body, such as a certain food or drug, introduced 
from outside the body; the trigger condition must be 
specified before the nanites are installed. It is also 
triggered if its Rating is reduced to 0. Once triggered, 
carcerand-plus nanites release their payload into the 
bloodstream.
Once injected, carcerand-plus colonies circulate 
through the body until the trigger condition is met or they 
are purged. Carcerand-plus nanoware contains the equiv-
alent of one dose of a compound. The requisite dose 
of compound must be bought and paid for separately. 
Carcerand-plus cannot be supported by a soft nanohive.
NANOSYMBIOTES
Nanosymbiotes are colonies of specialized nanites that 
permeate the user’s anatomy. Once they have fully de-
ployed, they adopt specialized functions appropriate to 
their location. These are all focused on returning the subject 
to a healthy physiological baseline. Nanosymbiotes adjust 
body chemistry, assist cell formation, and even mimic cer-
tain cell functions themselves, acting to speed clotting and 
healing. Functioning nanosymbiotes allow the user to heal 
and recover from wounds faster. Add the nanosymbiotes’ 
Rating to your dice pool when making tests to heal dam-
age through natural recovery (p. 207, SR5).
NANTIDOTES
Nantidotes are hollow nanites that float in the user’s 
bloodstream and carry a specific toxin’s antidote inside 
an outer membrane. When a nanite comes into con-
tact with the predefined toxin or compound, this out-
er membrane automatically dissolves or cycles open, 
administering the antidote at the poisoned site. Nan-
tidotes affect only one type of toxin or venom, cho-
sen when the nanites are created. If the nantidotes are 
already present in the body, their effect is instanta-
neous—they provide complete immunity, and the toxin 
has no effect. Every time a dose of toxin is neutralized. 
reduce the nantidote’s Rating by 1 point; if the Rating 
is reduced to 0, the nantidotes can offer no more pro-
tection. This Rating degradation may be restored by a 
nanohive normally.
NEURAL AMPLIFIERS
This form of neural nanoware has been in development 
since the very first days of the datajack. Nanotechnol-
ogy has finally developed to the point where scientists 
can foray deeper into the brain and central nervous sys-
tem without excessive risks. Neural amplifiers use soft 
nanites to manufacture artificial neurons and expand 
neural pathways between specific parts of the brain’s 
or body’s neural network. After growing the expand-
ed neural architecture, the dedicated nanite colony 
falls into a support role, electrochemically stimulating 
the newly formed pathways—a process that emulates 
natural reinforcement of neural pathways in the brain 
through learning, practice, and experience. Each type 
of neural amplifier targets specific neuron tracts, en-
hances glial cell functions (in the brain), and increases 
axon density and width with superconductive nanofil-
aments sheathed with nu-myelin (a transgenic protein 
that reduces interference with neural impulses and 
neurotransmitter “signal degradation”). Neural amplifi-
ers create a significant increase in specific brain func-
tions and response time.
Only two neural amplifiers can function at peak ef-
ficiency per subject, after which point the additional 
neural traffic becomes increasingly distracting and con-
fusing. If you have more than two neural amplifiers at 
a time, you take a –2 dice pool modifier to all actions 
related to each system.
Learning Stimulus: These neural amplifiers facilitate 
comprehension and memorization of skills the charac-
ter already possesses by enhancing the brain’s ability 
to cross-reference learned skill memories and the lan-
guage comprehension functions of the parietal-tem-
poral-occipital complex. When raising a Knowledge 
or Language skill the character already possesses, this 
nanoware reduces the Karma cost by 1 for each Rating 
point, to a minimum of 2 Karma.
Limbic: Limbic neural amplifiers rewire parts of the 
limbic system to areas of the parietal, temporal, and oc-
cipital lobes that produce cohesive sensory perceptions 
(from neural sensory stimuli). This system grants a +1 
dice pool modifier and increases the Mental limit by its 
Rating when using Intuition-linked skills.
>>	
CHROME FLESH <<
<< HACKING THE METAHUMAN CODE    149
