

===== PAGE 185 =====
GEAR
The world is not made for orks and trolls, so they 
have to make it fit them. Here are some pieces of 
gear that can help.
ANTENNA GRILL
Got an implanted commlink or cyberdeck? Want 
to cut through the noise that afflicts the wireless 
world? Then get yourself a stylish and useful an-
tenna grill. Useful only on tusks (since they have 
regular exposure to the air outside the mouth), 
these metal implants connect to a wire in the jaw 
that runs up to the ’link or deck, improving recep-
tion. Double the distance on all categories when 
calculating noise modifiers (p. 231, SR5).
Essence 0.1, Availability 4, Cost 1,000¥
Anarchy Shadow Amp: Amp level 1. Add one to 
a single die roll on a Matrix test.
BMW TROLLHAMMER
BMW revamped their meta-friendly classic, soup-
ing up the engine, pushing the front wheel slightly 
more forward, and giving it a more angular appear-
ance. Most of the basics remain intact, though, 
from its low-slung seat to its throaty engine. It’s 
not the most economical bike on the market, but 
sometimes you pay a premium to get something 
that feels like it fits you with no compromises.
Anarchy: Armor 8, Durability 10
FOLDING METACHAIR
Look, this is a luxury and probably unnecessary. 
But when you spend enough time going from 
place to place with chairs that don’t fit you, or 
that threaten to break the moment you place 
any weight on them, you start to wish you just 
had a reliable chair you could bring with you any-
where. This is that chair. It compresses to a cylin-
der only slightly larger than your favorite soykaf 
thermos, but when assembled, it can hold an ork 
easily. Get the MaxiMetaChair, and it can hold a 
troll (though when compressed, it has twice the 
volume of the smaller version). The chair sets up 
within minutes—or faster, with the microbot-en-
abled self-assembly model. Do you want to 
make a statement that you will make a place for 
yourself in the world? Then set one of these up 
in whatever trog-unfriendly place you visit, and 
show that any place can be made to suit you.
MetaChair, basic: Availability —, Cost 50¥
MetaChair, self-assembly: Availability —, Cost 
200¥
MaxiMetaChair, basic: Availability —, Cost 85¥
MaxiMetaChair, self-assembly: Availability —, 
Cost 235¥
Anarchy: Treat as gear.
FORD TITAN
As would be expected, the more purchasing 
power a certain group has, the more they are go-
ing to be marketed to. The Ford Titan is a variant 
on their Econovan with more headroom, a sturdi-
er suspension, and larger seats. Humans, elves, 
and dwarfs may feel lost in the large interior, but 
orks and trolls love being able to get in without 
excessive bending, stooping, or folding. The loss 
of some seating capacity is, of course, a natural 
consequence of trying to make orks and trolls 
comfortable, and the van is longer than the Econ-
BMW TROLLHAMMER
HAN
SPEED ACCEL BOD
ARM PILOT SENS SEATS AVAIL COST
4/3
4
2
10
8
1
2
1
—
12,500¥
THE COMPLETE TROG
EVERYTHING
TROG
184    EVERYTHING TROG >>


===== PAGE 186 =====
ovan. Some orks and trolls feel resentment at hav-
ing one of the companies that treated them as an 
afterthought for so long suddenly acting like their 
ally, and they view any of their fellow trogs who 
drive the Titan as sell-outs. Others, though, can’t 
resist the comfort and fit the van provides.
Anarchy: Armor 8, Durability 16
HORN COMPARTMENT
Similar to a tooth compartment (p. 452, SR5) but 
larger, the horn compartment gives a slick way to 
carry credsticks, RFID tags, or other small items. As 
with the tooth compartment, it can be equipped 
to remove the enclosed items with either a wire-
less signal or a hidden catch. Unlike the tooth 
compartment, it cannot be used for self-poisoning 
purposes, because of course it can’t. 
Essence —, Availability 8, Cost 1,000¥
Anarchy: Treat as gear.
OSMIUM MACE
There are all sorts of ways to make weapons more 
effective, but in the end, if you have a strong arm 
delivering the blow, all you really need in order to 
be effective is something with lots of mass and 
inertia that will pound a huge amount of force 
into the chest of whoever you’re hitting. The club 
does this job pretty well, but if you have the arm 
strength for it, having extra weight at the end of 
the shaft can really get momentum swinging, 
delivering a huge payload of kinetic energy to 
the target. Enter the osmium mace, which some 
say is over the top in terms of its pain-delivering 
mass, while others say that’s just the way they like 
it. Osmium is the most dense metal on earth, but 
its brittle nature makes it unsuitable for the con-
struction of a weapon. It’s just fine, though, for 
a ball on the interior of a mace head, especially 
when it is alloyed to make it more durable and 
then surrounded by a titanium shell to help dif-
fuse some of the shock of impact away from the 
core. The result is a weapon that is difficult for the 
average person to lift up, let alone swing. When 
you get up to ork or troll levels of strength, you 
can deliver devastating blows that make you look 
like a character straight out of mythology. 
*Accuracy decreases to 3 when wielded by 
someone with Strength of 4 or lower and increas-
es to 5 when wielded by someone with Strength 
of 7 or higher.
DV changes to (STR+2)P when wielded by 
someone with Strength of 4 or lower and increas-
es to (STR+6)P when wielded by someone with 
Strength of 7 or higher.
Anarchy Weapon: Close Combat, DV (STR/2 + 
3), Close OK, Near —, Far —
REINFORCED ROPE
Normal and stealth rope typically hold 400 kilo-
grams, which seems like more than enough for 
most metatypes, but put two trolls on a single 
rope—or even an ork and a troll—and you have 
trouble. Reinforced rope provides extra strength 
when you need to haul multiple trogs. Both the 
FORD TITAN
HAN
SPEED ACCEL BOD
ARM PILOT SENS SEATS AVAIL COST
3/2
4
1
16
8
2
2
8
—
32,500¥
OSMIUM MACE
ACC
REACH
DV
AP
AVAIL
COST
4*
2
(STR+4)P
–1
14R
5,500¥
<< EVERYTHING TROG    185


===== PAGE 187 =====
standard and stealth variants hold up to 600 kilo-
grams, while reinforced micro rope can hold 200 
kilograms (which leaves trolls still out of luck, but 
it’s at least something for orks!).
Reinforced standard rope: Availability 2, Cost 
100¥ per 100 m
Reinforced stealth rope: Availability 12F, Cost 
170¥ per 100 m
Reinforced microwire: Availability 8, Cost 
100¥ per 100 m
Anarchy: Treat as gear.
 
ROCKBLOOD OLD SCHOOL LINE
This fashion line is designed to enhance the ork 
form, making it look both strong and elegant. 
Well-dressed orks across the globe are getting 
on board with Rockblood’s fashion sense, mak-
ing them feel like they don’t have to look like 
other metatypes to be stylish. The clothing has 
an armor rating of 8 and increases the wearer’s 
Social limit by 1. Capacity 10, Availability 8, Cost 
1,900¥.
Anarchy: Armor value 9. 
When used as Shadow Amp: Amp value 2. Ar-
mor value 9, add 1 to a single die on any Social test.
ROCKBLOOD SIGNATURE 
ARMORED SHIRT
This is an armored shirt specifically designed for 
trolls by the fashion designer known as Rockblood. 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
186    EVERYTHING TROG >>
