drone arms. Drone speed is never based on limb Agility, 
so there is usually little point to upgrading this and, as per 
drone arms, cyberlimb armor placed on a drone doesn’t 
affect the drone in any way. Drone legs do not add extra 
boxes to the drone’s Physical condition monitor. 
GECKO GRIPS 
By coating the motive systems with gecko-glove-like 
materials, the drone can cling to virtually any surface. 
This allows it to climb vertical, or even hang upside 
down, as long as the surface has a Barrier Rating at 
least equal to the drone’s Body x 3. Gecko grips require 
a Shop, use 1 MP, and cost (Body x 3) x 50 nuyen. Note 
that larger drones may have gecko grips, but will have a 
hard time finding a surface able to hold them!
IMMOBILE
A drone that is immobile can’t move under its own 
power. These drones have a Speed and Acceleration 
of 0, which cannot be upgraded. On the positive side, 
they gain +2 Mod Points for not having a drive train. 
Making a drone immobile requires a Shop but doesn’t 
cost anything other than a day’s labor.
SKYGUIDE
By linking with SkyGuide, a drone can use the network’s 
own guidance systems to get where it needs to be. The 
downside is that the system takes priority over the own-
er’s commands, allowing the drone to be controlled by 
the Guide, or Riggers employed by SkyGuide, against 
the owner’s wishes. The upside is that SkyGuide pro-
vides both a Navigation (6) autosoft and a Maneuver (6) 
autosoft to any drone while it’s logged in to the network. 
Standard issue on flying drones sold form 2078 forward, 
it may be added to older drone with a Kit, requires 0 MP, 
and costs 5 nuyen, plus a 10 nuyen/year user fee.
SPOTLIGHT
Mounted externally, a drone spotlight acts as a flash-
light in all ways. It requires a Kit, uses 0 MP, and costs 
50 nuyen.
SUSPENSION MOD
Ground drones have an easily modified undercarriage, 
ultimately allowing the owner to replace the motive 
systems with some work. The base Handling of these 
suspensions is as follows; Standard 4/2, Tracked 3, or 
Off-road 2/4. Changing from one to another requires 
a Shop, uses no MP, and costs (Body x 3) x 100 nuyen.
TIRE MOD
Wheeled drones may have the wheels replaced in a 
pinch, serving a role roughly akin to a modified sus-
pension but not quite as good. The wheels increase the 
lower Handling Rating by 1, while lowering the better 
Handling by 2, until they are replaced again. (Thus, a 
4/2 becomes a 2/3, while a 2/4 becomes a 3/2.) This 
exchange requires a Kit, uses 0 MP, and costs (Body x 
3) x 25 nuyen. (Note that the old tires may be kept and 
this mod removed at a later time, restoring the normal 
Handling.)
SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS
What, you thought modern cars were all about me-
chanical grease monkeys and wrenches? Pfft! If you’re 
working on anything made in the past quarter-cen-
tury, you need to know computers to get it to run, 
and if you know computers, you’d know how much 
you don’t know about the subject. For the most part, 
both vehicles and drones are simple things, needing 
enough brainpower to go from A to B, do something 
when they arrive, then wait for more orders. Cars that 
come when you signal or drones that swoop over an 
area for recon are basic, but most riggers want to take 
over for anything more complex. I’m here to tell you 
that that’s not always needed. A good Pilot program 
can handle more than you think, since you’re mostly 
used to dog brains on low-end commercial models, 
and while you’ve not been paying attention, the auto-
soft market got smarter.
PILOTS
It all starts with the Pilot, the main brain of your new ma-
chine. For ninety-five percent of the people out there, the 
pilot of their car or house-cleaning drone is what they’re 
used to. It can play music, keep your car at the right 
speed, or clean up a spill, but you wouldn’t trust it with 
anything important (he says, knowing full well that most 
commuters tell their car where to go, then lean back, fire 
up their commlink, and entertain themselves until the car 
tells them that they’ve arrived, never realizing that they 
have a two-ton bullet under their butt). Security drones 
have a more advanced Pilot program, with advanced fire/
don’t fire protocols based on potential targets in the area 
(or the known value of stored supplies) that can also use 
predictive algorithms to guess where you’ll be next when 
you get out of sight. “Retail brains” are simple pilots on 
par with cars, able to do one thing, for instance your taxes 
or legal research, but nothing else. 
Then you get fancy.
Advanced Pilot programs are comparable not to 
dogs, but to small children or, in some cases, adult meta-
humans. There aren’t many that can make this claim, but 
led by military research where drones had to account 
for dozens of factors at once, Pilot programs have got-
ten smarter. I’m partial to the Djinn-IV Pilot from Saed-
er-Krupp myself; it’s like having a child around the 
house, curious about everything and capable of some 
astounding leaps of logic. The top-end programs are re-
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
126    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<
