priate for all drones, of course; the gamemaster is the 
final arbitrator in what is and isn’t allowed. 
WEAPON MOUNTS
Probably the most common drone mod is finding a 
way to strap weapons onto one. Due to the small size 
of drones, standard vehicle mounts aren’t always ap-
propriate, so drones use weapon mounts from the fol-
lowing chart. Each weapon mount added uses up the 
listed number of Mod Points (listed as MP), allowing 
a drone to sometimes mount several smaller weapons 
rather than a single large one. All weapon mounts are 
at least Restricted, while some are Forbidden outside of 
military use as shown. In addition, authorities are quite 
interested in what weapons are mounted in them! In 
most nations, it’s illegal for a drone to mount anything 
other than non-lethal weaponry. The CAS is a notable 
exception to this rule.
OPTION: POP-OUT MOUNTS
Ordinarily a weapon mount is quite obvious, as is the 
weapon mounted therein. Since shadowrunners tend 
to have quite illegal things mounted on their drones, 
this can be problematic, as you might imagine. There 
are two disguises for weapon mounts that can be used 
on drones. The first are blow-away panels. These are 
simple coverings that are designed to be ejected just 
before the weapon is triggered. Once blown away, the 
weapon is left exposed and obvious, but this method 
is both cheap and easy. Blow-away panels may be in-
stalled with a simple Kit, and cost 25 nuyen x the MP of 
the weapon mount. A Perception + Intuition [Mental] 
(2) Test will reveal that there’s something covered, but 
not what it is. Once the panel is blown away, it cannot 
be recovered.
The other option is “pop-up” weapons (or pop-out, 
or pop-under as the case may be). These are weapons 
stored inside the body of the drone, deployed on com-
mand (requiring a Free Action), then retracted again with 
another command (also a Free Action). Much harder to 
detect (requiring a Perception (4) Test) and re-usable, 
the mechanisms are a bit cumbersome and complex, 
adding 1 to the number of MP consumed by a weapon 
thus concealed. (For example, a standard mount with 
pop-up options would cost 4 MP.)  Pop-up mounts may 
be installed with a Shop, and they cost 100 nuyen x the 
increased MP of the weapon.
OPTION: EXPANDED 
AMMUNITION BAY
Unlike normal vehicular weapons, the tight constraints 
of a drone’s body offer limited ammunition reserves. 
JUST HOW FAST IS THAT, ANYWAY?
While the speed of many vehicles was listed in SR5 (p. 
200), there are advanced rules. Speed for drones is listed with 
an appropriate letter code indicating its type of travel: G for 
ground, R for rotor, J for jet, or W for water. When comparing 
speed across modes, note that in order of relative speed, they 
line up like this (from slowest to fastest): Water, Ground, Rotor, 
and Jet. Drones will have trouble catching up to a drone or 
vehicle traveling in a faster mode. For more information, see 
chapter nine, Maximum Pursuit. 
WEAPON MOUNTS
MOUNT
MP
AVAIL
WEAPON
Micro
0
8R
Single-shot bullet or dart. 
Mini
1
4R
Hold-out pistol, light pistol, 
reach 0 melee weapons, 
single-shot grenade
Small
2
8R
Heavy pistol, machine pistol
Standard
3
10F
Sub-machine gun, under-
barrel grenade launcher
Large
4
12F
Shotgun, hunting rifle, 
assault rifle, grenade 
launcher
Huge
5
16F
Sniper rifle, light or medium 
machine gun
Heavy
6
20F
Heavy machine gun, rocket 
launcher, assault cannon
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
124    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<
