as them leaving the industry, far from it, but it’s just that 
their focus has changed for some strange reason.
>	
<cough> Deus <cough>
>	
/dev/grrl
With the strength of both GridGuide™  and now 
HarborGuide™ in their pocket, Renraku’s new angle 
is SkyGuide™, a program intended to control flying 
drones but not airplanes. Turns out that those who went 
through both the second crash and the outbreak of tech-
nomancers afterward are a tad nervous about remov-
ing control from pilots. SkyGuide is intended to control 
drone traffic in an urban environment, automatically 
redirecting them from air traffic and turning them from 
restricted airspace, also providing information to law 
enforcement should one be brought down through van-
dalism (or, of course, used in a crime). By casting a wide 
wireless net over a ’plex, they can ensure a reduction in 
accidents, destruction, and collisions. 
>	
Huh. A net in the sky? Wonder why they didn’t go with the 
obvious name?
>	
Turbo Bunny
ARES MACROTECHNOLOGY
Ares is actually the tops in one subset of the industry: 
military drones. Flying drones that silently unleash tar-
geted mini-missiles, self-guided missiles, and support 
weapon platforms are obvious, but also noncombat 
support, like the Mule equipment transport drone or 
a law-enforcement drone for the bomb disposal team. 
It used to be called the military-industrial complex, but 
these days, it’s just “Ares.”
>	
You’re selling them short, Clockwork. Ares is known 
for firepower, but they made their name in aerospace. 
They’re the leading producers of all manner of aero and 
space assets, from atmospheric sensor drones to spy sats 
to deep-space repair robots. Not really covered in your 
report, but it should be remembered.
>	
Orbital Bandit
SONY
The only AA-rated corporation that can play at this 
level is Sony. For over a century, they’ve been at the 
cutting edge of robots, keeping a high level of tech-
nological expertise even if they don’t match the raw 
industrial production of the bigger boys. Every year, 
they roll out an astounding breakthrough in artificial 
intelligence, only for Renraku to top them the next 
year. Mitsuhama’s “glass jaw” in terms of consumer 
robotics is due to Sony and Renraku dominating the 
market, and no one can rival them in the field of med-
ical robotics. 
>	
The advanced R&D Sony does is later sold to the other 
players (MCT, Ares, and so on) a couple of years after 
they’ve invented it, in a sense operating as a subsidized 
research lab for the other robot masters. Doesn’t keep 
the other megas from blocking them from triple-A status, 
mind you, but it keeps them from being preyed on quite 
so much.
>	
Glitch
>	
Huh. That’s pretty wily of ‘em!
>	
Slamm-0!
THE WORTHY COGS
Technically second-tier corps in the market (but don’t 
say that to any of their executives’ faces!), the Cogs 
have all found a place to make a profit while looking to 
advance one step higher. Each has their own special-
ized niche or a broad diversity that can’t match sales 
with the big guns, but they’re always hungry for more.
AZTECHNOLOGY
While the Azzies have, as always, been happy to steal 
technology, file off the serial numbers, then re-market 
it as their own at a lower cost (and much lower quality), 
the past few years have seen a turnaround that makes 
them an actual consideration. They’ve always had 
knockoff Ares drones on hand, but the war with Sirrurg 
resulted in some bottomless R&D budgets and risk-tak-
ing of the sort that tends to bear fruit. With “Dragon-
Slaying” miltech having gone nova-hot, they’re seeing 
a market hungry for their weaponized drones. Beyond 
this, they’ve long had a significant presence in the field 
of consumer drones, and the marketing push for “Juan” 
is creating record sales. If they can keep this up for a 
decade, or if Ares keeps falling, they could move up.
>	
While the Azzies are selling a lot of combat drones, they 
don’t use them anywhere north of Monterrey; flying 
death machines are all well and good for blowing away 
Awakened critters and conscripted peasants, but they’re 
not high-quality enough to face CAS electronic-warfare 
specialists, let alone Pueblo.
>	
Kane
EVO
Traditionally third in the military side, behind Ares and 
MCT, Evo continues to invest in both military and secu-
rity drones, as well as large-scale industrial technology. 
The one area that they continue to lead is submersible 
drones, focusing on the industrial and exploratory rath-
er than the artistic like Sony. Of particular note is that 
Evo drones are notorious for being clunky but borderline 
indestructible, reflecting the Russian technological her-
itage that they now stamp on so many of their goods. 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<    121
