>	
And, again, they have a huge space focus via CosMos. 
Honestly, Clockwork, the world doesn’t end with the 
atmosphere.
>	
Orbital Bandit
>	
You don’t see them in North America often, but  Yamatetsu 
makes slick drones for the Asian market.
>	
Sunshine
SAEDER-KRUPP
An odd duck, S-K should be scrapping hand-to-hand 
(or, well, claw) with MCT in this field, but they’ve never 
seemed too interested. They have the technology, the 
computer expertise, and the industrial demand—hell, 
they already have ludicrously large machines like the 
Bagger 318, and when they decide to create a high-end 
pilot program, it’s a thing of perfection. But Lofwyr just 
never seems to care, so the drones are rare, if excellent.
>	
I asked a source about this. Their thought is that “Playing 
with dolls is for children. Golden Snout was born too old 
for that.” As always, take with a grain of salt.
>	
Frosty
SHIAWASE
With Mitsuhama, Renraku, Sony, and Evo (formerly Yama-
tetsu) all operating out of Japan, you wouldn’t think that 
Shiawase would find a niche, and yet here they are. They 
have an investment in “drone homes,” living quarters that 
network with a central administrator to keep lights, sounds, 
and supplies at optimal levels, but their real money is sunk 
into agricultural robots and in medical telepresence. The 
quiet war between them and Sony in senior-care robotics 
is vicious, and they recently leveled a shot across the bow 
of Horizon, letting them know in no uncertain terms that 
they shouldn’t consider the market of selling agricultural 
support to the NAN to be an open field.
>	
That was an odd one, as Horizon only recently entered 
the agricultural market via the Wind River Corporation. 
They’re using Renraku models, with their own drone 
production being cinematic in focus. Wonder if there’s 
more to this?
>	
Sunshine
>	
There’s always more. You, of all people, should know that.
>	
Icarus
DRONE 
MODIFICATION
While every rigger mods their cars, not many do many 
mods with their drones other than strap guns onto 
them. In part this is due to the compact design leaving 
little space, but surprisingly few riggers even consider 
that they can make mods in the first place. Vehicles are 
investments while drones are “toys,” and thus, dispos-
able. Time to think again.
These rules provide detailed options for drones and 
can be used as an optional rules system for adding mod-
ifications to them. Players who do not want to use a sep-
arate system can use the rules provided in the Building 
the Perfect Beast chapter (p. 150).
THE BASICS
Drones have a much more limited space to work with 
than ordinary vehicles. Every drone is given a number 
of Mod Points equal to their Body. These Mod Points 
work vaguely like Essence, a reserve of points that is 
gone once they’re all used up, meaning no further mod-
ifications are possible unless you first rip something out. 
Some drones have some, or all, of their Mod Points al-
ready spent in order to carry advanced equipment. Due 
to this, a new indicator has been added to the drone 
attributes that shows how many points are available 
for a new drone of that make, shown thusly: Body X(Y), 
where X is the actual Body rating of the drone while (Y) 
is how many points are available. In many cases, this is 
the same number, but not always. Drones from other 
SR5 supplements have been added to the master chart 
with this taken into account. Several older drones have 
had their stats adjusted to fit the rules presented in this 
book. This new statline replaces the original details for 
games using Rigger 5.0, otherwise the older information 
remains valid. 
ADDING UPGRADES
Adding an upgrade is easy enough: Check to see if 
you have enough Mod Points available, find someone 
to do the work (this can be yourself, of course), and 
pay the fee. Once it’s installed, you’re good to go. 
As an added bonus, all drones have a bit of wiggle 
room for expansion, be it more memory and more 
advanced software installs for the Pilot program, a 
better grade of engine component for speed, and so 
on. This means that any drone may have an attribute 
increased from the base by 1 (or 3 for Armor) with-
out expending any Mod Points. Increasing an attri-
bute further than that requires at least a partial re-
build, and the expenditure of Mod Points equal to the 
increase minus 1. This means a +2 Speed increase 
costs 1 Mod point, while +4 Speed would cost 3, and 
so on. The only attribute that can never be increased 
is Body; this is the inherent frame of the drone, and if 
you want it bigger, you should just buy a larger mod-
el. Adding one attribute point requires an appropri-
ate toolkit, while more extensive upgrades require an 
appropriate shop. 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
122    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<
