ENDURING DOWNGRADES
Drones may also be given Downgrades, worsening an 
aspect of the machine by using inferior parts. The ad-
vantage to this is that you could trade off a feature that 
you don’t care for as much in order to free up space for 
what you need. In a car, this would be ripping out seats 
to make a racing vehicle faster, while in a drone this can 
be removing sensors, going with a smaller and simpler 
control computer, and so on. Any single attribute may 
be worsened by 1 (or 3 for Armor), providing 1 Mod 
Point. This cannot be used to lower an attribute below 
1 except in the case of Speed (which can go to 0), and 
obviously the attribute must be lowerable (So, no re-
ducing a 1 to a 1 for a free Mod Point!). Furthermore, 
no matter how many Downgrades you make, you only 
receive a single extra Mod Point.
ATTRIBUTE 
MODIFICATIONS
The most basic level of mod, attribute modification lets 
you change the attribute of your drone. The one thing 
to remember is that a drone’s attributes can never by 
higher than twice their starting value (so if you had a 
Handling of 3, it can never be modified higher than 6). 
When you need to use a 0 for the math, like a micro-
drone’s Body score, use 0.5 instead. No multiplying by 
0 to get infinite free upgrades—nice try, though.
HANDLING
(Availability = Upgraded Rating x 2)
Better gyroscopes, improved shocks, spoilers and 
airdams, counterbalancing rotors, and more. Of the 
physical components, only speed is more expensive in 
the long run! Cost equals the upgraded Handling mul-
tipled by the Body, then multiplied by 200. This means 
that increasing to Handling 5 on a Body 2 drone would 
cost (5 x 2) x 200, or 10  x 200, or 2,000 nuyen.
SPEED
(Availability = Upgraded Speed x 2)
Everybody loves more speed! Bigger engines, better 
engines, louder engines! The most expensive upgrade 
for a drone, so brace for sticker shock! Cost equals the 
upgraded Speed multiplied by the drone’s Body, then 
doubled, then multiplied by 200. So increasing to a 
Speed of 5 on a Body 2 drone would cost ((5 x 2) x 2) x 
200, or (20) x 200, or 4,000 nuyen.
ACCELERATION
(Availability = Upgraded Rating x 4)
A little nitro never hurt anyone, right?  Wait, it can 
actually suffocate you? Oh. Well. Regardless! Brace for 
G-forces, it’s better Acceleration! Cost equals the up-
graded Acceleration multiplied by the drone’s Body, 
then multiplied by 200. Increasing to an Acceleration of 
2 on a Body 2 drone would cost (2 x 2) x 200, or (4) x 
200, or 800 nuyen.
BODY
(Availability = Mod Points Gained x 3)
While it cannot be upgraded, you can make some 
tradeoffs on integrity for modification diversity. That is 
to say, if you get a lighter, more fragile frame, you can do 
more things with the weight savings—but when things 
break, they break badly. Reducing the drone’s Body by 1 
produces 2 Mod Points, resulting in a net gain of 1 Mod 
Point. A drone’s Body may not be reduced lower than 
half the starting value in this way. Thus, a Body 3 drone 
may be reduced to 2 Body for 1 Mod Point, but not to 1 
as this is lower than half the starting Body, which would 
be 1.5.) 
ARMOR
(Availability = Upgraded Rating, may be R or F)
For some strange reason, people want their drones to 
survive. Funny, that! Adding armor is frowned upon by po-
lite society, however, so you might have to face a few ques-
tions from authorities worried that you’re making some 
kind of aerial assassination robot. Not that you’d do that, 
of course. Armor greater than 6 is considered Restricted, 
while Armor greater than 12 is Forbidden. In addition, Ar-
mor is heavy. A drone may bear the weight of Armor equal 
to three times its Body without a decrease in ability, but for 
every 3 points beyond this, the drone suffers –1 Handling 
and Speed, while every 6 points also reduces Acceleration 
by 1. If this results in Handling dropping below 1, or either 
Speed or Acceleration dropping below 0, then the drone 
is unable to move at all. Cost equals the upgraded Armor 
multiplied by the drone’s Body, then multiplied by 200. In-
creasing to an Armor of 15 on a Body 3 drone would cost 
(15 x 3) x 200, or 45 x 200, or 9,000 nuyen.
SENSOR
(Availability = Upgraded Sensor x 2)
Cameras to see, mics to hear, and short-range radar 
for parking. Sensors take many shapes and sizes, but 
fortunately they don’t take the size of the drone’s frame 
into account. Upgraded Sensors are thus much easier 
to calculate. The cost is equal to the upgraded Sensor 
rating x 1,000 nuyen. A single sensor may be upgraded 
instead of the entire array for (Rating) x 100 nuyen.
PILOT
More on this under Software Solutions!
OTHER MODIFICATIONS
Each of the following mods is listed with a cost in Mod 
Points, Availability, and nuyen. Not all mods are appro-
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<    123
