stricted to military use, but I’ve gotten my hands on a 
few and, each time, they’ve developed personalities be-
yond what I ever expected. Like the armored personnel 
carrier that liked to “dance” to the almighty Troggs.
The Pilot program determines the Rating of the drone 
as a whole, serves as the primary source of attributes for 
skill tests, serves as a cap on the highest rating autosoft 
the drone can run, and more. Is there any reason that it’s 
in such high demand? Civilian Pilot programs are generally 
Rating 2 (or, rarely, 1), restricted security Pilots are 3 to 4, 
while military-grade Pilots (5 to 6) are Forbidden for gener-
al use. Cost and Availability are shown on the chart below:
AUTOSOFTS
It all ends with autosoft programs, the detailed com-
mands that ensure a Pilot does what you want, when 
you want it. New autosofts are released every year—
some expected, some quite the surprise. They don’t 
cover all situations yet, but there’s much more a drone 
can do than spy or shoot. Some of the most common 
ones are shown below.
A Pilot program may not run an autosoft of a higher 
Rating than itself (meaning a Rating 3 Pilot may run an 
Autosoft with a Rating of 1, 2, or 3, but not 4 or high-
er). When using a rigger command console, the console 
may run a higher-Rating autosoft and share that with the 
drone, allowing it to exceed its normal capabilities. So if 
you have an Aztechnology Crawler Clearsight 6 autosoft 
slotted into your RCC, each of your Aztechnology Crawl-
ers may use it at the full value of 6.
Some skills are Restricted or Forbidden. Those will be 
indicated on the individual autosoft profile. Remember 
also that an autosoft is designed for only a single drone; 
you cannot slot a Clearsoft autosoft designed for an Az-
technology Crawler into an Evo Proletarian. (Well, you 
can; it just doesn’t do anything.) 
SMARTSOFT (RESTRICTED)
This is the same smartlink provided in eyeware or video 
enhancements, integrated into the sensors of a vehicle 
or drone. The Smartsoft is considered a Rating 3 auto-
soft and allows the full use of smart weapons.
GROUP
A shared-signal autosoft that allows each drone 
equipped with it to answer the same command, rather 
than requiring you to issue commands to one at a time. 
The Group autosoft is considered a Rating 2 autosoft.
SKILLSET
The Skillset autosoft gives the listed skill to the drone. 
The Rating can be from 1 to 6 as normal, but note that 
some Skillset autosoft are Restricted. The following 
skills may be taken as an autosoft:
Academic Knowledge (any single knowledge)
Chemistry (Restricted) 
Demolitions (Restricted)
Electronic Warfare (Restricted)
First Aid
Hardware 
Instruction
Language (any single language)
Lockpicking (Restricted)
Mechanic (any single Mechanic skill)
Medicine (Restricted)
Melee (as Targeting, but for a specific melee combat 
weapon)
Navigation
Performance (any single perform skill. Song-a-Mat 
evolves!)
Professional Knowledge (any single knowledge)
SOFTWARE TWEAKS
There are also some minor modifications that can be 
made to programs that have no real effect on the over-
all performance but allow for some customization. 
PERSONALITY
(Availability 4, Cost 100¥)
Many people treat their drones as pets, and a per-
sonality tweak can go a long way to help. A Pilot with a 
Personality will develop a “flavor” all to itself, evolving 
PILOTS
RATING
AVAIL
COST
1
4
100¥
2
—
400¥
3
8R
1800¥
4
12R
3200¥
5
16F
10,000¥
6
24F
20,000¥
AUTOSOFT PRICES
While this is in the official SR5 Errata, not everyone has 
access to the Internet and, quite frankly, there’s no better place 
to list them than Rigger 5.0. So here they are!
SOFTWARE
AVAIL
COST
Autosoft (1–6)
(Rating) x 2
(Rating) x 500
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<    127
