Any weapon mounted on a drone uses the weapon’s 
normal ammunition limits, rather than the expanded 
version of a vehicle’s. There are, however, two optional 
ammunition bays for drones. The first is simply adding 
a second bin, which holds the same number of am-
munition as the weapon ordinarily holds, and a small 
switching unit to feed the weapon when one runs dry. 
This may be installed with a Kit, uses 1 MP, and costs 
50 nuyen.
The other option is a full belt-feed system, replacing 
the weapon’s normal ammunition feed mechanism en-
tirely. This requires a shop, makes the weapon belt-fed, 
and provides enough room for an entire belt of 100 
rounds. Additional expanded ammunition bays may 
then be added, each holding another 100-round belt. A 
belt-feed system requires a Shop, uses 2 MP, and costs 
500 nuyen.
REALISTIC FEATURES
One of the most-requested modifications, realistic fea-
tures are found on several spy drones, allowing them to 
blend in with local birds or insects. This type of modifica-
tion also remains popular with anthropomorphic drones 
in an effort to humanize them. As the design approaches 
a more realistic model, the cost, as you might imagine, 
increases. Realistic features are available in four ratings, 
each rating serving as the threshold on a Perception test 
to tell if it’s machine or a living being. 
Rating 1, Availability 2, Cost (Body x Body) x 100
Rating 2, Availability 4, Cost (Body x Body ) x 500
Rating 3, Availability 8, Cost (Body x Body ) x 1,000
Rating 4, Availability 12R, Cost (Body x Body ) x 5,000	
While many drones can be made realistic (receiving 
Rating 1), allowing them to pass at a casual glance at a 
distance or at night, wheels, quad fans, and so on are 
quite difficult to disguise. Most drones cannot be given 
Realistic Features beyond Rating 1, while some cannot 
even obtain that level. (The gamemaster is the final arbi-
trator on what is and isn’t appropriate.) Realistic Features 
2 can be added with a Shop, but higher than this requires 
a Facility (most drones this realistic are designed as such 
before being sold).
AMPHIBIOUS
An amphibious drone comes in two ratings: Rating 1 
allows it to float on the surface of a body of water, as 
long as it’s relatively still, and while vulnerable to being 
submerged, it’s waterproof on the underbody. Rating 
2 Amphibious makes the entire drone waterproof, al-
lowing it to be submerged without harm. Note that in 
either case, you’ll want a motive system! Rating 1 re-
quires a Shop, 1 Mod Point, and costs (Body x Body) x 
100 nuyen. Rating 2 requires a Facility, 2 Mod Points, 
and costs (Body x Body) x 1,000 nuyen.
ASSEMBLY TIME 
IMPROVEMENT
Many drones are designed to be partially disassembled 
to allow for ease of storage and transport, most nota-
bly several winged drones whose propulsion method 
and wings can be removed so that the entire rig can 
be transported via car, then re-assembled for use. To 
assemble or disassemble a drone with this modification 
requires (Body) minutes and an appropriate Mechanics 
+ Logic test with a threshold of 2. This upgrade can be 
done with a Shop, requires 1 MP, and costs (Body) x 
100 nuyen.
CUSTOMIZED
Pure cosmetic differences, including flashing LED 
lights, snazzy paint, or chrome trim, can make a world 
of difference in making your drone what you want it 
to be. There is no game effect from these mods, but 
they’re pretty to look at! Customization can be done 
with a Kit, uses no MP, and can cost anywhere from 
10–10,000 nuyen.
DRONE ARM
Similar to a cyberarm, a drone arm is much cheaper due 
to the lack of flesh-chrome connections and sensory 
translation. Unless otherwise noted, use the standard 
cyberlimb rules, though the limb costs half of the normal 
price. (Upgrades for the arm are at full price, however.) A 
drone’s cyberlimb starts with a Strength equal to its Body 
and an Agility equal to its Pilot. If the drone is using the 
arm for a test that would normally be Agility-based, use 
the limb’s Agility, rather than the drone’s Pilot Rating. A 
drone limb may have the base drone’s starting attributes 
as much as doubled, no matter how many increases that 
is. The limb attributes may not go higher. (This means a 
Body 5 drone could have a strength increased from 5 to 
10, ignoring the usual cap of +4 to an attribute, but may 
not go higher.) Drone limb armor does not affect the 
drone in any way, but having a limb provides +1 to the 
physical condition monitor as normal. Adding a drone 
arm requires a Shop and uses 1 MP.
OPTION: PRIMITIVE ARM
While a normal drone arm has a metahuman’s level 
of functionality, some drones save money by using a 
simpler arm. These arms have brushes, or suction cups, 
with a more limited range of options. These limbs suf-
fer –2 to any limit on tests requiring fine manipulation 
or weapon use with that limb, but the limb costs ten 
percent of the normal price, rather than fifty percent.
DRONE LEG
Walkers have legs, sometimes two, usually more. These 
operate similar to a cyberleg, but much cheaper as per 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<    125
