==== R5 110 ====
“I trust the remainder of your team accepts my offer,” Mr. 
Johnson said flatly.
Get smiled. “They wouldn’t send me in to negotiate if they 
didn’t.”
Mr. Johnson had already questioned why the team’s rig-
ger was doing the meet. It wasn’t a direct question, Johnsons 
were rarely direct until it was time to screw you over. Instead 
he simply asked where Tact was and then accepted Get’s an-
swer with a predatory smile. Get wasn’t a skilled negotiator, 
and he knew the Johnson had gotten the better end of the 
deal for the price of a five-man team. But Get wasn’t part of 
a five-man team today; he was one man, with a wide array of 
skills and drones to cover any job some other runner might 
do. Except for negotiating. He hadn’t found a good negotia-
tions drone yet. Yet.
The best part wasn’t even the money. It was nice that it 
was all his, and though he’d probably lose a drone or two—
he usually did—the pay was plenty to replace those he lost. 
No, the best part was not having to deal with the drama of a 
bunch of other runners. Posturing for alpha, divvying the pay 
unevenly because the mage always thought they deserved 
more, testing the face to make sure he hadn’t skimmed a little 
extra for himself, dealing with some drama or another caused 
by the street razor because karma was catching up with their 
murderous ways. None of it. None of that bullshit. Get was 
alpha, Get got all the money, and Get knew all his own drama. 
“Well then. We are agreed. Your upfront payment is avail-
able now. The remainder will be paid upon delivery of the 
item. Good luck to you and your team.” 
Get’s reply was a quick, “Thanks!” It was all he had time 
for before Mr. Johnson stepped back out into the dimly lit bar. 
Alone in the back room, Get pulled up diagnostics for all 
of his active drones and lined them up along the right side of 
his AR window based on altitude. Every one was green across 
the board despite the local interference. Thanks to his scrub-
ber program, the Vulcan’s premium CleanAir technology, and 
the filtration hardware in the Transys datajack, the signal for 
even his farthest drone was perfect. At the top of the ARO 
stack, and over a kilometer overhead, was the center of Get’s 
network, a modified Aerodesign Systems Condor LBSD-41. 
The mini-blimp was based on the old and sturdy frame, but all 
of the internals had been updated based on Get’s own per -
sonal design specs. The systems weren’t milspec, but they 
were better than anything you could buy and he never had 
issues with compatibility or corpsec backdoors. 
Early in his career Get had learned that lesson the hard 
way. He hadn’t earned the grease behind his ears and took a 
stock MCT-Nissan Roto-Drone on a job inside MCT property. 
ONE RIG TO 
RULE THEM ALL
110    >> ONE RIG TO RULE THEM ALL  <<

==== R5 111 ====
When the drek hit the fan, the local combat decker slipped 
a simple shutdown command through the backdoor. Get 
watched the Roto-Drone autorotate back to the ground right 
in front of the security force leapfrogging up to push his team 
out. To rub some salt in the wound, one of the guards even 
used the drone as cover for a moment and gave the blades a 
little spin as he moved away.
Get had learned a lot since then.
He issued a command series to the Condor to get it under-
way. It wasn’t fast, and it would take a while for it to get to the 
target location. He needed his hub in place ASAP—Get wasn’t 
wasting time getting started on this op. The commands would 
bring the Condor closer to the nearest dronestream, where it 
would drop the sneaky ninja act and slide into the flow as 
an advertising mini-blimp. Wing’s Asian Take-out would get a 
little extra advertising tonight. 
Once the commands were set, the ARO slid over to the 
left. As it slipped into virtual place two bars—one green, 
one blue—popped up next to it. Green was a status bar that 
warned Get of any issues the drone was having so he could 
check it out and maybe jump in to get it out of trouble. The 
blue bar was already getting smaller as it represented the 
progress of the Condor on its commands. It would flash once 
it got close to completion. 
Next up for commands was the third icon down his right-
side AROs. Numbers one and two were custom MCT-Nissan 
Roto-Drones located inside number three, a GMC Bulldog 
kitted for drone hauling. The GMC had a half-dozen other 
drones inside, but none of them were currently active. Get 
logged commands for the Bulldog to get underway, park on 
the top floor of a garage a block from the target location, and 
activate three more of the drones it was carrying: a Dober -
man, a Crawler, and a Fly-Spy. 
After only two minutes, Get had commands out through 
his rig to a dozen drones as he dropped into the driver’s seat 
of the Americar he had rented when he first got to the island. 
The vehicle wasn’t rigger friendly, but that was fine, Get en-
joyed some manual operation every once in a while. Soon 
enough he’d leave this car behind and start the job in ear -
nest, but for the next twenty minutes, he focused on the road 
ahead and drove the old-fashioned way.  
✖
The sensation was similar to zero-g, but Get knew gravity was 
there. He was just lighter than air. Air that held a bit of a chill 
at his current elevation of 964.25 meters. It was 8.3 degrees 
cooler up here than at the ground. Temperatures varied all 
>> ONE RIG TO RULE THEM ALL  <<    111
BY SCOTT SCHLETZ

==== R5 112 ====
over Get’s vision. The land was still warm, even hours after 
the sun had set. Spots of intense heat showed the locations 
of lights along the streets that warm blobs glided along. A few 
bright areas flickered—fires or tiki torches at the resort. The 
waterfront was a shimmering mix of cool water pulling heat 
from hot sand with each crashing wave. A line of hot blobs 
zipped along in the space between Get and the ground, cre-
ating a river of warmer air with their exhaust and motor heat. 
Get reached up and pulled the overlay back into his view. 
It was thrilling to take some time to get the full feeling of be-
ing the Condor almost a kilometer above San Juan, but work 
called. The overlay added all of his currently active drones to 
his field of view. He now had nine icons on the right side of 
the screen, each with a thin line connected to a matching icon 
in his field of view. Several were so close together the icons 
overlapped at this distance. Though distance was irrelevant 
with his current eyes. He did a flash zoom and made sure 
things were five by five in the overlaps. Years of experience 
taught the double-check, and it paid off. Get sent a quick 
command to move the microskimmer. Its final position only 
shifted by two meters, but it stayed out of sight by gliding 
along the wall and around to the other side instead of go-
ing over. That little hiccup wouldn’t have ruined the op, but it 
could have started it all off on the wrong foot. 
With that one move, everything was in place. It was time 
for Get to conduct the symphony.
✖
Get’s VR persona, a symphony conductor with airman’s gog-
gles on his forehead, permanently grease-stained fingers, 
and vintage Wolverine work boots, sat in the high-backed 
chair that represented the center of operations for his Vulcan 
Liegelord. He knew other riggers often customized their cap-
tain’s chair mode, but Get didn’t find it necessary. He spent 
most of his time jumped in and using the Condor to feed him 
overall tactical data while he enjoyed the sensations of real 
rigging. While his persona was that of a conductor, he was 
more like first chair for every instrument. 
Next up was a little piccolo. 
✖
Zipping around through the air was exhilarating. His back 
hummed with the beating of his tiny wings as he dipped and 
dodged around the various shorts-clad tourists of San Juan’s 
Condado district. He avoided several swatting hands as he 
buzzed past ears just for the fun of it, and then quickly chas-
tised himself for risking the job. Get was currently in his most 
fragile drone, an MCT Fly-Spy, and a single lucky swing could 
end the tiny microdrone. 
He flew higher to avoid the crowds and remove the urge 
to buzz people with his large wasp-like form. It gave him a 
clear view of his target striding quickly along the sidewalk. 
The man’s movement was too fast for a stealthy approach. 
Get kept his altitude, buzzing right along the side of the 
huge hotel that held his final quarry, and got directly over the 
quick-stepping target of phase one. 
The man’s movements were unexpected. Get had consid-
ered several options for infiltration, and this was the best, but 
he never thought a guy delivering flowers would be trying to 
set land speed records. A string of petals had already been lost 
along the route from flailing arms. His haste, and damage to 
the roses—nice, expensive roses—made Get feel a little better 
that no one would be tipping him for his speedy delivery. 
But no tip didn’t solve his problem. He didn’t have many 
options this early in the plan. The Roto-Drones weren’t in 
place yet, and while the other drones were, nothing they did 
right now would slow the world’s fastest flower deliverer. It 
was up to him.
Get buzzed ahead and landed smoothly on the back of 
a streetlight. As his tiny metallic feet grabbed hold, he could 
immediately feel them tingle from nearby vibrations in the 
metal. Quickly rotating in place, he turned to see the long yel-
low-and-black legs of a spider appearing as it emerged from 
a rusty hole in the metal only a few centimeters from Get’s 
landing spot. 
Once out, the spider raised up four of its front legs in a 
harrowing threat display. The position gave Get a clear view 
of the arachnid’s fangs, and he understood why other insects 
might back off. Problem was, he couldn’t. He needed this 
spot. Get was bigger, though only barely, but the spider was 
clearly defending its territory and not about to let some wasp 
claim his spot. 
While the move might risk the entire operation Get hun-
kered down to do battle with a banana spider.
✖
Seconds later, and none the worse for wear, Get was once 
again on mission. He focused on the approaching target 
while trying not to be distracted by the woman screaming 
below him who had just received a stunned banana spider 
in her hair. It was a doubly lucky encounter. Get learned he 
was pretty good at fighting spiders, and the woman’s panic 
slowed the floral courier enough for Get’s next move.
Get launched himself downward toward the courier. 
Wings folded back and wind zipping over his narrowed form, 
he made slight adjustments over the short flight. His aim was 
perfect as he reached the space right next to the delivery -
man’s ear, opened up to rapidly slow, and then started beat-
ing his wings rapidly. 
The old bug in the ear trick worked perfectly. While a hand 
swung up to swat him away, Get landed lightly on the man’s low-
er back. After a few more swings at nothing, the man stopped to 
look around and Get quickly buzzed over to the flowers, crawled 
down inside, and jumped over to the next phase.
✖
112    >> ONE RIG TO RULE THEM ALL  <<

==== R5 113 ====
Hovering only a millimeter off the ground near a small pile of 
trash, Get looked like yet another discarded piece of tech. He 
took in his surroundings quickly and found the narrow alley 
just as he expected. Some rats, insects, a few arachnids that 
he hoped weren’t telepathic and holding grudges, and a wide 
array of garbage. Most importantly, flammable garbage. 
Buzzing up a few centimeters, he extended his arm and 
flicked his thumb. The microwelder in the microskimmer’s tiny 
arm tool sparked to life. It took a few passes to clear the ev-
er-present moisture caused by the Borinquen humidity, but 
in under a minute the trash of the alley was all ablaze and 
the microskimmer started skimming along the walls headed 
towards the hotel where all the action would be while Get 
moved on. 
✖
 Skimming along always felt so different from true flight. While 
he was excited for this next phase, Get made sure to pull the 
status display up for all the drones. Zooming along within the 
dronestream that buzzed over Expo Baldorioty de Castro, 
Get ran down the right side and issued commands to each 
drone. He ordered the Condor to move south fifty meters to 
get an angle around the rising smoke. The microskimmer he 
had just departed was commanded to continue to the ren-
dezvous. The Crawler got orders to dismount the Doberman. 
The Doberman got commands to tuck in next to the lift and 
activate its ruthenium systems. The Fly-Spy was ordered to 
gain visuals but stay hidden. The other Roto-Drone was told 
to reduce following distance from fifty to twenty-five meters. 
The second microskimmer got cleared to execute its tagging 
program. The Nightrunner was released to run its preset pilot 
sequence. The Artemis received the command to unfurl its 
wings. And the Bulldog was ordered to move to the lower 
level of the parking garage. 
It was all done in a matter of seconds. No arguments, no 
suggestions, and no drama. This was the part Get loved.
Still in the dronestream over the highway Get located 
the smoke rising in the distance and spotted a trio of drones 
headed in that direction. Two were Roto-Drones, and the 
third was a Spinmaster, the specialized media drone from 
Cyberspace Designs. Both Roto-Drones had cameras mount-
ed where most runners see guns, and Get had his window. 
He broke away from the dronestream and zipped ahead into 
formation with the other drones as they bee-lined it for the 
smoke. As Get flew over Avenue Ashford, he received the 
local policia command to maintain standard media distances. 
The message had override codes that Get ignored, but he still 
followed orders. No one was going to notice a failed com-
mand if the drone still followed protocol.
Get got himself lined up with a nice view of the hotel’s 
front and back doors, the burning alley of trash, and the ga-
rage where the Bulldog was just now slipping into a parking 
space on the first floor. He unfurled his media ARO for all to 
see. Then he found himself in a cloud of smoke.
✖
The smoke swirled all over from Get’s tiny little turbofans. 
He finished dotting the exclamation point and then zipped 
up ten meters into the air. He brought his open palm to his 
mouth and blew. The air around him was suddenly filled with 
thousands of AROs. They were all too close together to read 
just yet, but as they moved out and got distance from each 
other, the message became clear.
No More NATVAT! 
AZTECH OUT!
✖
Get drifted in a little closer to the other media drones. He un-
furled his media ARO while lining up a great shot of the little 
Microskimmer as it buzzed off towards the water and away 
from the cloud of RFID tags it had just spewed into the air. 
Get recorded the RFID graffiti for later use and set his po-
sition with a clear view of the alley and the derelict, graffiti 
covered building where this orchestra was really being con-
ducted from. At his current elevation and angle he couldn’t 
see the Artemis unfurled on the balcony or its unconscious 
cargo, but he knew it was there from the feeds the Condor 
was offering.
Everything was going as planned.
✖
The view was terrible. Plastic, even the slightly more expen-
sive stuff the ritzy flower shop used, was not easy to look 
through. Get risked an early discovery and sliced a small slit 
in the plastic, and then he pressed his little wasp head in close 
to see out.
He was thankful the deliveryman wasn’t walking as quick-
ly and was finally holding the flowers steady. They were near-
ing the room for delivery; Get could see the numbers on the 
doors as they passed, so the deliveryman was on his best be-
havior. 
Get played back a little footage from the Fly-Spy’s record 
and discovered the act had started shortly after he stopped at 
the front desk, and it wasn’t because he was a consummate 
professional. The deliveryman had an escort. 
Get couldn’t see who was with him, but he could hear the 
other man’s footsteps. They were almost in step, but the es-
cort had a heavier footfall. Knowing the other man was there, 
Get watched the shadows and figured out the other man’s 
position. Not too far, not too close. Probably hotel security. 
Get tucked back in and watched through the plastic, he 
wasn’t going to get this close just to get spotted by some ho-
tel mook.
✖
>> ONE RIG TO RULE THEM ALL  <<    113

==== R5 114 ====
Get scurried up the stairs quickly. He extended an arm and 
activated the dock lift. 
✖
Get rolled quietly over to the lowered lift. He checked his gun, 
locked and loaded, and the case he carried. Everything was 
just as it should be. Some security had been making their way 
through an industrial-looking back hallway of the hotel, but 
a few Dragonfly drones at his disposal had given him a look 
at the situation, and a quick hack took over a cleaning drone 
that spewed soap on the floor. Following that up with nipping 
attacks from the drones would keep the mooks confused and 
occupied. They would stay away while he worked.
✖
“… didn’t order any fucking flowers. Now slot off.”
Get could hear the anger in the man’s voice immediately. 
Things weren’t going well for the flower deliveryman.
“This is the address and room number. This says they go to 
Mr. Tom Garfield, with love P. Kat. These things are expensive. 
Really expensive.”
Get heard the delivery guy trying to work something for 
himself and enjoyed a little internal chuckle at the names. 
There wasn’t a damn thing he could do about what happened 
next. 
Get was suddenly crushed inside the plastic prison. His 
ears rang from the crackling plastic as he was jerked quickly. 
He thought it was toward the room, but he couldn’t be sure. 
Pain lanced through his arms and legs as they were caught 
and twisted in what he could only guess was the doorman’s 
grip. 
The crushing lessened, replaced by a feeling of weight-
lessness and then a crashing of everything around him. More 
pain hit his back as rose thorns jabbed through his thin wings. 
He jumped away to escape the pain. 
✖
Get hopped over to the door and cut through the glass with 
a laser on his arm. He caught the falling glass, set it aside, 
crawled through the opening, and opened the door for the 
approaching Doberman. He was still a little shaken from the 
damage to the Fly-Spy. According to the display it was still 
operational, though he knew several systems, including flight, 
were not going to be operational. It only had one more task. 
Hopefully it could manage. 
Get led the Doberman to the service elevator and hit the 
call button after climbing on the larger drones nearly invisible 
back. The ruthenium was doing a great job of keeping the big 
perimeter drone out of sight. It helped that they hadn’t run 
into anyone yet either.
When the elevator arrived, that changed. 
✖
Get watched the Crawler scurry for the corner, taking the 
attention of the two men in the elevator with it. Two quick 
shots later and both men were writhing on the floor, electric-
ity coursing through their bodies. Get put an extra round into 
each, just in case, and pushed their twitching bodies out of 
the way as he rolled into the elevator.
✖
It was always a strange feeling to have pain in a place that 
didn’t normally exist on your body. Get’s wings were killing 
him. One was cracked, the other pierced by rose thorns, and 
they were both trashed. His legs were in a little better shape, 
with three and a half still operational. It was enough to crawl, 
and that was all he needed. 
Well, that and the lens. 
Get had hindered nearby hacking by filling the air with 
RFID tags. Physical security could be zapped like the waitstaff, 
and the bulky cameras on the Roto-Drones shot something 
other than pictures. Magic was usually the issue. That’s where 
the lens came in. 
Get crawled slowly through the wreckage of the flowers 
and found the slit he had already started. Before slipping 
through he lowered the small green lens into place in front 
of his right eyes. As he pushed through the plastic, the room 
came into clear view. 
It was a decent suite, and he could see everywhere but 
behind the half-wall area that looked like a little kitchen or bar. 
There were three people in the room, and he could see them 
talking but couldn’t hear them. When Get made the realiza-
tion that his hearing was gone, he also realized he probably 
wasn’t as stealthy as he thought moving through the flowers. 
The lens cast green over everything. Living things came 
up a slightly lighter green. Awakened things were nearly 
white. The three men in the room ran the gamut of colors. 
It was all the info he really needed. He would have loved to 
have the Fly-Spy in place when the Doberman arrived, but the 
sudden appearance of a massive cat head sent Get straight 
into the hallway.
✖
The Crawler wrapped a few times on the door, and Get could 
hear the people inside coming closer and talking. “Better not 
be another flower delivery. I’ll shoot this one.”
There was a long pause when the man arrived at the door, 
most likely as he peered through the peephole and saw noth-
ing, but it eventually opened a crack. 
Get watched the Crawler jam a leg through the space but 
focused primarily on his efforts to shoot the leery ork eye as 
he peered through the sliver of open door. Though Stick ‘n’ 
Shock rounds are not intended to cause permanent harm, 
Get was sure the ork would need a new eye once he woke up. 
114    >> ONE RIG TO RULE THEM ALL  <<

==== R5 115 ====
Gunfire followed almost instantly. Get had expected that 
when he saw one of the other fellows in the room was pretty 
close to matching the furniture through the Fly-Spy’s lens. 
Unaware of danger and simply following orders, the 
Crawler pushed open the door, or at least the remains of the 
door, and scurried into the room in front of Get. Switching 
weapons, Get fired a thick stream of greenish-gold liquid into 
the room. 
The coughing began immediately, but that wasn’t Get’s 
purpose for hosing the room down with concentrated liquid 
chlorine. Sure, it slowed the goons down, but the minute the 
first drop of that stuff hit the air, the real target was on the 
move. 
✖
Get tucked his legs in and prepared to leap into action from 
his spot behind the half-wall. He issued a quick command to 
the Doberman and then scrambled out into the path of the 
cat as it ran for the door. When measuring the gracefulness of 
things in the Sixth World, riggers can often move their drones 
far beyond what others would expect. That said, Get had yet 
to determine how to make a ten-kilo chunk of metal, plastic, 
and servos match the grace of even the clumsiest of felines. 
And this was not a clumsy feline.
✖
As the Crawler tumbled from losing the grace-inducing com-
mand of the rigger interface, Get tried not to notice that it 
landed right in front of the doorway to the other room of the 
suite. If the guards over there weren’t totally incapacitated by 
the chlorine, he was going to be out another drone. 
Instead of watching another couple grand get trashed, Get 
kept his eyes on the prize. Or more specifically, his targeting 
reticle on the cat. The clumsy strike with the Crawler forced 
the cat to leap up and off the remains of the door and then 
out into the hallway. 
Get watched and tracked the cat’s movement until it 
cleared the frame where his shot would no longer risk send-
ing the cat back into the room. Then he fired. 
At that range, the blast from the barrel peeled away fur 
and chunks of flesh before the Stick ‘n’ Shock round even 
cleared the barrel. When it hit, the cat spun in the air, did a 
little herky-jerky twitch, and then landed on all fours, moving 
at a dead run that would make a cheetah proud. 
Get swore. He’d expected something like this from a 
monad cat, but it didn’t matter. Even the fastest monad cat 
in the universe couldn’t outrun his targeting software. He 
finished bringing the barrel around and fired several shots in 
rapid succession. 
Only one missed.
And that was intentional.
Get felt the weight of the Crawler climb onto his back 
and the chemical chill of the chlorine on his skin. He rolled 
quickly down the hallway and opened the case he carried, 
then stuffed the cat inside. 
“I think you can hear me in there, so listen up. If I think 
you’re doing anything funky in my belly, I’ll flood your box 
with the rest of the chlorine in my tank. Not sure that will kill 
you, but I know it won’t feel keen.”
✖
Get zoomed along Avenue Ashford toward the hotel where 
the gunshots had gone off. He was behind the other media 
drones again, but that was fine. He knew the story already. 
✖
Looking down over Condado, Get saw the approaching poli-
cia and the buzz of people drawn to the violence like moths to 
a flame. He monitored his other teammates as he floated fur-
ther out over the ocean. The Fly-Spy was gone, destroyed by 
the target cat. The Doberman and Crawler slipped out of the 
hotel, and once Get sent a remote command to the Americar 
to speed away and be a distraction, they rolled through alleys 
and back to the Bulldog. The microskimmers were both zip-
ping along the beach to a rendezvous point where they’d wait 
for the Bulldog, Roto-Drones, and Condor to arrive before all 
loading up and heading to the cargo container waiting for 
them at the airport. 
Everyone was doing just what they were told. No dou-
ble-cross. No “great” ideas. No improvising.
✖
Get watched his limp meat body dangle in the harness of the 
glider from his place on the water. He kicked and felt the wa-
ter slide along his belly. He sent a command to the glider to 
shift its course a few degrees and then turned to glide along 
the water and line up beneath the descending glider. 
When the Artemis reached 25 meters from the Nightrun-
ner it executed its final command. The targeting autosoft lined 
up a perfect shot and fired at the rear seat of the fast-moving 
boat. Get timed his mental command perfectly and popped 
the rear seat up, exposing a metal plate beneath. With a loud 
thunk, a large magnetic disc slammed into the small metal 
plate, and the seat immediately dropped closed. 
A thin line ran from the disc back to the glider, which now 
gained lift as the boat’s speed increased. 
Get focused on the cool water gliding over his smooth 
skin. He let the overlay go and let himself feel the strange life 
of a boat. He was not below the surface and not above; he 
was between, and it was a strange sense unequaled by any 
other. 
Well, except for the feeling of a job well done.   
✖
>> ONE RIG TO RULE THEM ALL  <<    115

==== R5 116 ====
With each small tap on a polyacetylene myomer fiber 
in the exposed wrist, a finger curled in response to the 
tiny electric pulse, replicating the contraction of muscle 
tissue. Satisfied that it was responding correctly, Shui 
Clark closed the small access port in the cyber-arm, 
leaned back in her chair, then pushed her goggles to 
the top of her head as she released a long breath. 
“All right, Tater Tot. Time to give your new arm a 
spin.” 
With a well-practiced roll of her left shoulder, her cur-
rent arm clicked and unlocked, allowing her to pull it free 
with her right, setting the cybernetic one on her work -
bench beside the shiny new model she’d just finished 
calibrating. As she always did, she paused for a moment, 
brushing fingertips over the chrome connector port that 
divided her flesh even as the car accident had divided 
her life. She hated that it existed, but the wreck was a 
decade ago, and the one-armed life was all she could 
truly remember. She felt a small shudder of revulsion 
and longing for what could never be as she fetched her 
new arm. The connector whirred to life as she held the 
arm to it, hearing it dock smoothly, then a pop indicating 
completion. Now whole once again, or as whole as she 
could ever be, she ran through a familiar set of mental 
commands, turning the limb this way and that, wiggling 
each finger individually, then closing her eyes to try to 
touch her nose, ears, and right shoulder for a spatial-rec-
ognition test. With all tests passed, she opened her eyes 
and said, “Now, let’s try the new feature.” 
It was odd learning the secrets of a new limb. Each 
command was like a creating shadow puppet, learning a 
new combination of muscles and bends that would ac-
tivate it, always tricky and clumsy at first until your brain 
could learn exactly how to make the shape. Retracting 
her hand was as easy as bunny ears, accessing the tool 
menu not unlike clenching a fist, but rotating the assem-
bly to get the right tool was going to take practice. Luck-
ily, she had a patient ready to go.
Stepping away from her work table, Shui looked 
across the garage. Numerous drones looked back 
at her, from the small Kanmushi perched on posts or 
clinging to walls like house geckos to the Fly-Spy lurk -
ing on a spare tire to the delivery drone whirring just 
inside the window, waiting patiently with cooling food 
below it. “Aw frag, totally forgot I’d called in for some 
Heli-Tacos.” She reached for her left forearm, forgetting 
momentarily that this arm had a tool assembly instead 
of an onboard commlink, then fumbled for a few min-
utes until she found her ordinary ’link in a desk draw -
er. She added a generous tip, then took her bag before 
dismissing the drone. Glancing inside as it flew away, 
she found room-temperature and soggy food within. 
“Just my luck.” 
Setting the bag aside for now, she pushed her tummy 
rumble to one side, instead focusing on the beaten van 
currently on the lift. “Aleksi, status report?” 
The Proletarian drone that rolled from beneath the 
lift had once been a lovely red, but after many acci-
dents with grease and oil was now a mishmash of red, 
brown, and black. She should really clean him up, but 
he always looked adorable mucked up. With a chirp, he 
stated, “Preliminary repairs are completed as instruct-
ed. Damage was primarily cosmetic and easily patched 
over the indicated portions.” An AR projection highlight-
ed several locations in separate panels, each showing 
bullet strikes or, on the front grill, where she’d had to 
drive through a closed barrier. “The right rear tire was 
unrepairable and will need replacement. Several engine 
components have suffered minor damage from shrapnel 
and, as instructed, unit designate Aleksi did not attempt 
repairs. If mistress is ready to begin, unit designate Alek-
si is prepared to assist on command.”
“In a moment. First, would you please bring me my 
console?” 
“Affirmative.”
As the small drone wheeled away, Shui attached a 
single cable to the van’s diagnostic panel, then sat on 
the floor in the lotus position to await the Proletarian’s 
return. When it arrived, console in claw, it asked, “Will 
we now begin repairs on unit designate Charlie?”
Attaching the cable to the console, she then ran a 
second from it through her coveralls, finding the data-
jack at the base of her spine. “I need to get inside first, 
see how he feels. Keep an eye out for customers, Aleksi, 
I’ll be right back.”
His reply was a distant echo as her consciousness 
slid from her meat form to the console and, from there, 
into the Bulldog step-van. Most riggers she knew pre-
RIGGER 5.0
THE AUTOMATED
ARMY
116    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<

==== R5 117 ====
ferred wireless commands, and she used them herself, 
but when time wasn’t a factor, there was nothing quite 
like climbing inside by a direct feed. It was like putting 
on an old sleepshirt or a raggedy old pair of pants … 
everything just felt right when connected this way. The 
connection was more personal and intimate, bonding 
her mind inside the machine completely until it was her 
body. She became the van.
The previous bullet holes were well-patched, but she 
could still feel them like small scabs. The urge to scratch 
at them was terrible, but there were other issues she had 
to explore first. Turning her drive train, she felt the flop in 
her right ankle and knew that it wouldn’t hold her weight. 
The tire was flat, but she could feel the small grind in her 
ankle that indicated a minor bend in the rim as well. Small 
enough that you couldn’t have seen it with the naked 
eye, but a rigger’s awareness was something else entire-
ly. More troubling was the phlegm in her lungs and the 
stress in her heart. The engine damage was more wide-
spread than she’d first realized, hardly fatal but enough 
that she’d be short of breath, unable to reach top speed, 
keep a good pace, or pull a large load. Her team needed 
to know that, when things got hot, they could count on 
her to get them out of there like she did three nights ago. 
But as it stood now, there was no way she could.  If she 
couldn’t breathe, she couldn’t run. There was a feeling 
like flush to her cheeks as she realized that she’d thought 
of Charlie as her true self again, an impossible response 
as she didn’t currently have cheeks, and she idly won-
dered if she’d turned on the van’s heaters in response. 
She ran a few more diagnostics, wiggling her fingers and 
toes, blinking and opening her eyes wide, wriggling her 
nose to make sure the windshield wipers would work, 
making mental notes about what needed to be fixed and 
what was fine. 
In time, she realized that she was procrastinating. 
She’d noted all the damage but hadn’t returned to her 
body. Here, she felt strong; her Bulldog frame was heavy 
steel and powerful compared to the 1.53-meter flesh 
frame she normally called home. She swept the room 
with her sensors, experiencing infrared and standard vi-
suals at once, low-end sonar giving her an approximate 
location of everything within ten meters, atmospheric 
sensors bathing her in numerous scents and an aware-
ness that, of course, it would soon be raining in Seattle. 
She knew her normal five senses were blind, deaf, and 
dumb compared to this, the sensor arrays showing her 
what the world was actually like in a way that she could 
never experience normally. She allowed herself to sim-
ply lie there, floating in space, a gentle pressure against 
her torso where the van’s frame was supported by the 
lift, just enjoying the sensors … until a rough series of 
coughs jolted her with pain.
Right. Engine damage.
With a resigned pang of disappointment, she slid 
back out of the van and into her natural form, groggi-
ly disconnecting the cord from her spine. As she did, 
she felt the familiar pins and needles in her legs as her 
neural pathways reconnected and blood began flowing 
properly. She stood on wobbly legs before setting her 
console to one side. She shivered a bit, vulnerable flesh 
thinking the room was cooler than her metal skin had, 
then glanced around at how much darker the room was 
without the van’s eyes. 
She held up her left hand, retracting the fist inside 
the arm cuff of her forearm, then extending a ratchet 
from the aperture. “All right, Aleksi, let’s get that tire off. 
We’re going to need to get that rim straightened out af-
terwards.”
“Affirmative, mistress. Unit designate Aleksi is al-
ways ready to serve.”
On her workbench, a small bag of soy tacos contin-
ued to cool, forgotten as it dangled from the loose grip 
of her old arm. Just another casualty of a rigger’s life. 
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<    117

==== R5 118 ====
> So, why are we letting Clockwork do this again?
> Slamm-0!
> We’re not “letting” him, we asked him. 
> Glitch
> After Rigger X told us no. Full disclosure.
> Bull
> What was it he said again? “Who cares about toys and 
glorified vacuum cleaners?”
> Glitch
> I get that, but … Clockwork? Come on.
> Slamm-0!
> I know that you two have history, Fred, but remember, 
FastJack recruited him for a reason, same as the rest of 
us. You at least owe it a look-over for that if nothing else.
> Bull
> … Frag. All right, put it up.
> Slamm-0!
> Already on it.
> Glitch
DRONING ON  
AND ON AND ON 
AND ON AND …
POSTED BY: CLOCKWORK
It never ceases to amaze me, how few people really get 
drones. I mean, they’re everywhere, right? It should be a 
no-brainer, but no, they’re too common now. They’re like 
AR spam or pollution, the background noise of life that 
everyone looks over, through, or past. I’m here to tell you 
that you shouldn’t, and further to show you what you’re 
missing. But first, it’s a tradition around here to talk about 
the distant past, and I’m not one to skip steps. As such …
IGNITION
The history of civilization is filled with machines, from 
the Simple Machines of Archimedes in antiquity to the 
Five Mechanisms of Heron of Alexandria near the year 
1, to Leonardo da Vinci’s Renaissance inventions, to the 
electric masterpieces of today—each one given purpose 
simply by existing, serving humanity by definition. While 
the first machines were simple things of wood and rope, 
as time marched on, we adapted them to new materi-
als, new applications, but always as a force multiplier. If 
one man couldn’t lift a rock by himself, he could use a 
pulley to do the work of five, making every action more 
efficient. If it took a man a week to travel a distance, we 
could put wheels under him and have a horse pull him 
in half the time. Later, we replaced the horse with an 
engine and got even faster. Faster, stronger, better—we 
made machines work for us.
The first time drones were weaponized is debatable. 
Old Chinese stories of clockwork soldiers and magical 
automatons of Europe should be disregarded in the 
name of science, leaving us the first verified use in 1849 
when, on August 22, the Austrians released firebombs 
via balloon into Venice, lighting the way for the future 
with fire. Balloons, manned this time, were further devel-
oped over the next few decades, leading to aerial obser-
vation and reconnaissance more than bombing work, as 
the strength of eyes-in-the-sky became realized. Over 
the next few decades, an unwillingness to sacrifice pi-
lots combined with a need for more aircraft resulted in a 
race for drones, either remote-operated, or self-guided, 
weapons that could get the job done bloodlessly.
> Bloodless for one side, that is. As bloody as possible for 
the other!
> Aufheben
> So dismissive of the magic of the past. Do you think it has 
never bubbled up before?
> Man-of-Many-Names
The dawn of the space race brought even more work 
into the field as robots—a word invented by a Czech 
named Karel Capec and not a Japanese word for “servant,” 
as so many people seem to think—became a cultural fasci-
nation. Elektro shocked the world at the 1939 World’s Fair 
by speaking, smoking, and moving about, while Robbie 
the Robot from Forbidden Planet and Rosie the Robot from 
The Jetsons captured the minds of youths who would bring 
about the robot revolution half a century later. General Mo-
tors’ Unimate showed that robots could accomplish tasks 
too dangerous for humans, a task they did so well at that 
whole factories were soon given over to automation.
> And with the invention of the automated loom came the 
Saboteurs, those who threw their shoes into the works 
to destroy the machines that took away their livelihood.  
Workers have protested the replacement of man by 
machine ever since!
> Chainmaker
> Now now, let us not throw stones (or shoes) at this point. 
Some of my best friends are machines.
> Icarus
WARMING UP THE ENGINE
Automation had progressed so much by the turn of the 
century that robots were able to do many jobs humans 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
118    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<

==== R5 119 ====
were once chained to, with industrial work the most ob-
vious target sector, but agricultural right behind. During 
the Food Riots of ’99, some took to raiding the fields even 
as auto-pickers were in use, resulting in several avoidable 
injuries and a few deaths. As would so often happen over 
the next few decades, public opinion of robots soured, 
shelving much of the progress that would have followed. 
This was made even worse by the Crash, which eradicat-
ed so many records of the past. You didn’t see drones of 
any real ability for decades after that.
> Not entirely true. Certain anthromorphic robots were 
active in the 2030s, after all.
> Turbo Bunny
> There are several incidental cases like that out there, 
where someone retained knowledge of technology past 
a collapse and wouldn’t share it with anyone afterwards. 
Technology of 2077 isn’t terribly more advanced than 
what they had in 2000 in many ways due to that. 
> Snopes
> Like the Nightwraiths, which were all remote-operated 
planes controlled by David Gavilan!
> Plan 9
RETICULATING SPLINES
It was 2060 when everything really changed. We always 
think of the human and financial cost that came from the 
Seattle Arcology shutdown, but the work Deus did in 
there advanced drone technology by leaps and bounds. 
Nanomachine advances, bee-sized drones, vicious com-
bat robots, all designed and produced in-facility by a mad 
AI. Each development was eventually captured and ex-
amined by top men in corporate and government circles. 
With that head start, years of research was completed in 
months, even weeks. Renraku had been surging ahead in 
a dozen engineering fields before this, but even their ac-
complishments paled before the creations of Deus.
> “You have to break a few eggs to make an omelet” is the 
vibe I’m getting here, and I don’t much care for it.
> Pistons
> He knows nothing of Deus. Nothing.
> Puck
ALL SYSTEMS ARE GO!
Today, drones are everywhere, from delivery of foodstuff 
by roto-drone to advertising blimps to construction robots 
to security work to remote tele-medical research, drones 
are at the cutting edge of science, exploration, and indus-
try. Most people don’t even drive these days, preferring to 
let their cars do the work while they relax, giving control to 
devices that are autos in every sense of the word. Today’s 
drones do our taxes, polish our boots, and mow our lawns. 
They pick our fruit, monitor the weather, and compose 
music for our amusements. In another fifty years, metahu-
manity itself could find itself retired to a life of leisure while 
machines do all the work. Truly, a utopia.
> He clearly hasn’t read the book, Utopia. What a horrible 
place to live! How it became a go-to word for perfect 
society, I’ll never know. 
> Butch
> Come now! A place where the wise rule, children mind 
their manners, and slaves know their place? Sounds like 
paradise! Well, other than the gold bit. Sir Thomas More 
could have used a course on economics.
> OrkCE0
> He is biased, but that does not make him wrong. Even 
as drones explode as a hobby, they are slipping into the 
workforce, displacing thousands of low-skill workers 
who are left unemployed and, worse, unemployable. 
That delivery from Heavenly Noodle used to involve a 
pimply teenager’s first job. That teenager would then go 
on to join the workforce with some level of skill. His drone 
replacement never gets a promotion, and now that kid is 
left both jobless and bored, soon to stir up trouble. For 
the right price, I could direct you toward any number of 
societal studies on this.
> Icarus
> It’s important to remember how overlooked drones are 
by most workers today. They forget that each one’s full 
of electronic eyes and ears, treating them as they would 
the furniture while chatting about any number of topics. A 
wise runner should take advantage of that.
> Balladeer
> Drone defenders are also seeing more use. They aren’t 
affected by bribes, fatigue, or mind-magic, never call in 
sick, and won’t be flirted away from their station. They 
generally aren’t as skilled at the job as metahumans, but 
they’re far more reliable. 
> Hard Exit
> I love it when people forget how easy it is to hack into 
most commercially used drones.
> Netcat
> Don’t forget the military side of things! Ares has been 
trying to field an all-drone team in Desert Wars for 
years but hasn’t yet gotten permission to do so. Civilian 
casualties are still horrible news leads for any war, so 
most world governments are looking to replace as many 
flesh-and-blood soldiers with machines as possible.
> Sticks
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<    119

==== R5 120 ====
> The ‘60s were a terrible time for drones, no matter how 
good the science had gotten. Rogue AIs, technomancers, 
and commlink scriptkiddies were making a mockery of 
most security protocols, taking drones on joyrides, strafing 
neighbors, and more. Political pushes drove lethal-armed 
drones almost to extinction and, even today, people just 
flat-out don’t trust a robot with a gun. (Nobody ever thinks 
about the two-thousand-kilo machine that they take to 
work each day as a weapon, of course. Remember what I 
said about not seeing drones? It goes double for cars.)
> Hard Exit
> Danielle de la Mar hasn’t forgotten, and her next project 
is to try and deal with “massacre machines, ” to drive out 
grenades, automatic weapons, and, yes, weaponized 
drones from polite society.
> Nephrine
> I don’t think she knows how much money the corps make 
from those things. They might have backed her before, 
but I’d lay good odds that she’ll be blocked on this.
> Slamm-0!
> Good odds you say? How good? <leer>
> /dev/grrl
> Girl’s got a problem …
> Turbo Bunny
 
I know you guys are hot for the catalogue, but before 
you see the product, you really need to meet the sales-
men. Drones are an industry that runs like, well, clock -
work, and if you just start poking around the machine, 
it’s gonna grind you up and spit you out.
THE MAINSPRING: 
MITSUHAMA
While it isn’t fair to say that nothing happens in the 
drone industry without Mitsuhama Computer Tech-
nologies deciding to make it happen, it’s not terribly 
far from the truth. For the most part, other manufac-
turers are defined by finding niches that MCT hasn’t 
filled or having their own spin on an existing area of 
operation. MCT casts an enormous shadow on the rest 
of the industry and keeps a constant level of pressure 
that forces the others to keep pace or break down. In-
dustrial robots, hazardous environment machines, se-
curity drones, mining, production, even the automated 
service industry after some horse trading with Renraku, 
they keep a finger in every market you can imagine and 
a few that you don’t know exist. The only area where 
they were weak was in the consumer side of things, 
and even there they bring in more income in the field 
than their nearest rival. 
> MCT innovated the Zero Zone (zero penetration, zero 
survivors) but found that, no matter how well-trained, 
some security teams were squeamish about the level of 
brutality required for that level of security. Turns out that 
robotic guns and toxin gas panels don’t care whose hoop 
they dismantle. 
> Hard Exit
Mitsuhama’s strength is in the physical design 
of drones, but their software has always lagged be-
hind some of the major players. As part of the Yamato 
Damashi spirit surging through the Japanacorps, Renr -
aku has been helping their chief rival in this regard, up-
grading their pilot technology and sharing autosoft re-
search, even selling them some of their older, successful 
designs as they reposition themselves in the service 
market. I’m not sure what Renraku’s getting in return, 
other than nuyen.
> Isn’t that enough?
> Riot
> Not at the level they play at. Megacorps are frenemies, 
helping one another one day, then undercutting each 
other the next. Renraku doesn’t need the mechanical 
or industrial strength of MCT , and while they’ve been 
snapping up subcontracting work in the larger corp’s 
wake, like a remora with a shark’s detritus, there’s not 
enough there to justify losing their software advantage.
> Butch
> You’re all looking at the wrong side of the corp. Renraku’s 
giving up technology, but they’re getting magical 
knowledge in return. Renraku’s always been weak in the 
magical area, while MCT’s second only to Aztechnology, 
and may actually be in front. More about this soon. Gotta 
see if a hunch pays off.
> Haze
THE GRINDING GEARS
While these are all top-level drone manufacturers, 
none of them have ever knocked Mitsuhama from that 
top spot. Renraku’s been the closest, and arguably did 
so during the Golden Year of 2059, but the Seattle Ar -
cology Shutdown cut them off at the knees before they 
could really take advantage.
RENRAKU
Traditionally MCT’s primary rival, Renraku makes superior 
software and operating systems (pilots, autosofts, and so 
forth), while MCT makes the better hardware. With Renr-
aku’s new tilt to a metahuman-and-service focus, they’ve 
been quietly pulling back from the intense R&D required 
to stay at the top of the scrap pile. This shouldn’t be read 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
120    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<

==== R5 121 ====
as them leaving the industry, far from it, but it’s just that 
their focus has changed for some strange reason.
> <cough> Deus <cough>
> /dev/grrl
With the strength of both GridGuide™  and now 
HarborGuide™ in their pocket, Renraku’s new angle 
is SkyGuide™, a program intended to control flying 
drones but not airplanes. Turns out that those who went 
through both the second crash and the outbreak of tech-
nomancers afterward are a tad nervous about remov -
ing control from pilots. SkyGuide is intended to control 
drone traffic in an urban environment, automatically 
redirecting them from air traffic and turning them from 
restricted airspace, also providing information to law 
enforcement should one be brought down through van-
dalism (or, of course, used in a crime). By casting a wide 
wireless net over a ’plex, they can ensure a reduction in 
accidents, destruction, and collisions. 
> Huh. A net in the sky? Wonder why they didn’t go with the 
obvious name?
> Turbo Bunny
ARES MACROTECHNOLOGY
Ares is actually the tops in one subset of the industry: 
military drones. Flying drones that silently unleash tar -
geted mini-missiles, self-guided missiles, and support 
weapon platforms are obvious, but also noncombat 
support, like the Mule equipment transport drone or 
a law-enforcement drone for the bomb disposal team. 
It used to be called the military-industrial complex, but 
these days, it’s just “Ares.”
> You’re selling them short, Clockwork. Ares is known 
for firepower, but they made their name in aerospace. 
They’re the leading producers of all manner of aero and 
space assets, from atmospheric sensor drones to spy sats 
to deep-space repair robots. Not really covered in your 
report, but it should be remembered.
> Orbital Bandit
SONY
The only AA-rated corporation that can play at this 
level is Sony. For over a century, they’ve been at the 
cutting edge of robots, keeping a high level of tech-
nological expertise even if they don’t match the raw 
industrial production of the bigger boys. Every year, 
they roll out an astounding breakthrough in artificial 
intelligence, only for Renraku to top them the next 
year. Mitsuhama’s “glass jaw” in terms of consumer 
robotics is due to Sony and Renraku dominating the 
market, and no one can rival them in the field of med-
ical robotics. 
> The advanced R&D Sony does is later sold to the other 
players (MCT , Ares, and so on) a couple of years after 
they’ve invented it, in a sense operating as a subsidized 
research lab for the other robot masters. Doesn’t keep 
the other megas from blocking them from triple-A status, 
mind you, but it keeps them from being preyed on quite 
so much.
> Glitch
> Huh. That’s pretty wily of ‘em!
> Slamm-0!
THE WORTHY COGS
Technically second-tier corps in the market (but don’t 
say that to any of their executives’ faces!), the Cogs 
have all found a place to make a profit while looking to 
advance one step higher. Each has their own special-
ized niche or a broad diversity that can’t match sales 
with the big guns, but they’re always hungry for more.
AZTECHNOLOGY
While the Azzies have, as always, been happy to steal 
technology, file off the serial numbers, then re-market 
it as their own at a lower cost (and much lower quality), 
the past few years have seen a turnaround that makes 
them an actual consideration. They’ve always had 
knockoff Ares drones on hand, but the war with Sirrurg 
resulted in some bottomless R&D budgets and risk-tak-
ing of the sort that tends to bear fruit. With “Dragon-
Slaying” miltech having gone nova-hot, they’re seeing 
a market hungry for their weaponized drones. Beyond 
this, they’ve long had a significant presence in the field 
of consumer drones, and the marketing push for “Juan” 
is creating record sales. If they can keep this up for a 
decade, or if Ares keeps falling, they could move up.
> While the Azzies are selling a lot of combat drones, they 
don’t use them anywhere north of Monterrey; flying 
death machines are all well and good for blowing away 
Awakened critters and conscripted peasants, but they’re 
not high-quality enough to face CAS electronic-warfare 
specialists, let alone Pueblo.
> Kane
EVO
Traditionally third in the military side, behind Ares and 
MCT, Evo continues to invest in both military and secu-
rity drones, as well as large-scale industrial technology. 
The one area that they continue to lead is submersible 
drones, focusing on the industrial and exploratory rath-
er than the artistic like Sony. Of particular note is that 
Evo drones are notorious for being clunky but borderline 
indestructible, reflecting the Russian technological her -
itage that they now stamp on so many of their goods. 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<    121

==== R5 122 ====
> And, again, they have a huge space focus via CosMos. 
Honestly, Clockwork, the world doesn’t end with the 
atmosphere.
> Orbital Bandit
> You don’t see them in North America often, but  Yamatetsu 
makes slick drones for the Asian market.
> Sunshine
SAEDER-KRUPP
An odd duck, S-K should be scrapping hand-to-hand 
(or, well, claw) with MCT in this field, but they’ve never 
seemed too interested. They have the technology, the 
computer expertise, and the industrial demand—hell, 
they already have ludicrously large machines like the 
Bagger 318, and when they decide to create a high-end 
pilot program, it’s a thing of perfection. But Lofwyr just 
never seems to care, so the drones are rare, if excellent.
> I asked a source about this. Their thought is that “Playing 
with dolls is for children. Golden Snout was born too old 
for that. ” As always, take with a grain of salt.
> Frosty
SHIAWASE
With Mitsuhama, Renraku, Sony, and Evo (formerly Yama-
tetsu) all operating out of Japan, you wouldn’t think that 
Shiawase would find a niche, and yet here they are. They 
have an investment in “drone homes,” living quarters that 
network with a central administrator to keep lights, sounds, 
and supplies at optimal levels, but their real money is sunk 
into agricultural robots and in medical telepresence. The 
quiet war between them and Sony in senior-care robotics 
is vicious, and they recently leveled a shot across the bow 
of Horizon, letting them know in no uncertain terms that 
they shouldn’t consider the market of selling agricultural 
support to the NAN to be an open field.
> That was an odd one, as Horizon only recently entered 
the agricultural market via the Wind River Corporation. 
They’re using Renraku models, with their own drone 
production being cinematic in focus. Wonder if there’s 
more to this?
> Sunshine
> There’s always more. You, of all people, should know that.
> Icarus
DRONE 
MODIFICATION
While every rigger mods their cars, not many do many 
mods with their drones other than strap guns onto 
them. In part this is due to the compact design leaving 
little space, but surprisingly few riggers even consider 
that they can make mods in the first place. Vehicles are 
investments while drones are “toys,” and thus, dispos-
able. Time to think again.
These rules provide detailed options for drones and 
can be used as an optional rules system for adding mod-
ifications to them. Players who do not want to use a sep-
arate system can use the rules provided in the Building 
the Perfect Beast chapter (p. 150).
THE BASICS
Drones have a much more limited space to work with 
than ordinary vehicles. Every drone is given a number 
of Mod Points equal to their Body. These Mod Points 
work vaguely like Essence, a reserve of points that is 
gone once they’re all used up, meaning no further mod-
ifications are possible unless you first rip something out. 
Some drones have some, or all, of their Mod Points al-
ready spent in order to carry advanced equipment. Due 
to this, a new indicator has been added to the drone 
attributes that shows how many points are available 
for a new drone of that make, shown thusly: Body X(Y), 
where X is the actual Body rating of the drone while (Y) 
is how many points are available. In many cases, this is 
the same number, but not always. Drones from other 
SR5 supplements have been added to the master chart 
with this taken into account. Several older drones have 
had their stats adjusted to fit the rules presented in this 
book. This new statline replaces the original details for 
games using Rigger 5.0, otherwise the older information 
remains valid. 
ADDING UPGRADES
Adding an upgrade is easy enough: Check to see if 
you have enough Mod Points available, find someone 
to do the work (this can be yourself, of course), and 
pay the fee. Once it’s installed, you’re good to go. 
As an added bonus, all drones have a bit of wiggle 
room for expansion, be it more memory and more 
advanced software installs for the Pilot program, a 
better grade of engine component for speed, and so 
on. This means that any drone may have an attribute 
increased from the base by 1 (or 3 for Armor) with-
out expending any Mod Points. Increasing an attri-
bute further than that requires at least a partial re-
build, and the expenditure of Mod Points equal to the 
increase minus 1. This means a +2 Speed increase 
costs 1 Mod point, while +4 Speed would cost 3, and 
so on. The only attribute that can never be increased 
is Body; this is the inherent frame of the drone, and if 
you want it bigger, you should just buy a larger mod-
el. Adding one attribute point requires an appropri-
ate toolkit, while more extensive upgrades require an 
appropriate shop. 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
122    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<

==== R5 123 ====
ENDURING DOWNGRADES
Drones may also be given Downgrades, worsening an 
aspect of the machine by using inferior parts. The ad-
vantage to this is that you could trade off a feature that 
you don’t care for as much in order to free up space for 
what you need. In a car, this would be ripping out seats 
to make a racing vehicle faster, while in a drone this can 
be removing sensors, going with a smaller and simpler 
control computer, and so on. Any single attribute may 
be worsened by 1 (or 3 for Armor), providing 1 Mod 
Point. This cannot be used to lower an attribute below 
1 except in the case of Speed (which can go to 0), and 
obviously the attribute must be lowerable (So, no re-
ducing a 1 to a 1 for a free Mod Point!). Furthermore, 
no matter how many Downgrades you make, you only 
receive a single extra Mod Point.
ATTRIBUTE 
MODIFICATIONS
The most basic level of mod, attribute modification lets 
you change the attribute of your drone. The one thing 
to remember is that a drone’s attributes can never by 
higher than twice their starting value (so if you had a 
Handling of 3, it can never be modified higher than 6). 
When you need to use a 0 for the math, like a micro-
drone’s Body score, use 0.5 instead. No multiplying by 
0 to get infinite free upgrades—nice try, though.
HANDLING
(Availability = Upgraded Rating x 2)
Better gyroscopes, improved shocks, spoilers and 
airdams, counterbalancing rotors, and more. Of the 
physical components, only speed is more expensive in 
the long run! Cost equals the upgraded Handling mul-
tipled by the Body, then multiplied by 200. This means 
that increasing to Handling 5 on a Body 2 drone would 
cost (5 x 2) x 200, or 10  x 200, or 2,000 nuyen.
SPEED
(Availability = Upgraded Speed x 2)
Everybody loves more speed! Bigger engines, better 
engines, louder engines! The most expensive upgrade 
for a drone, so brace for sticker shock! Cost equals the 
upgraded Speed multiplied by the drone’s Body, then 
doubled, then multiplied by 200. So increasing to a 
Speed of 5 on a Body 2 drone would cost ((5 x 2) x 2) x 
200, or (20) x 200, or 4,000 nuyen.
ACCELERATION
(Availability = Upgraded Rating x 4)
A little nitro never hurt anyone, right?  Wait, it can 
actually suffocate you? Oh. Well. Regardless! Brace for 
G-forces, it’s better Acceleration! Cost equals the up-
graded Acceleration multiplied by the drone’s Body, 
then multiplied by 200. Increasing to an Acceleration of 
2 on a Body 2 drone would cost (2 x 2) x 200, or (4) x 
200, or 800 nuyen.
BODY
(Availability = Mod Points Gained x 3)
While it cannot be upgraded, you can make some 
tradeoffs on integrity for modification diversity. That is 
to say, if you get a lighter, more fragile frame, you can do 
more things with the weight savings—but when things 
break, they break badly. Reducing the drone’s Body by 1 
produces 2 Mod Points, resulting in a net gain of 1 Mod 
Point. A drone’s Body may not be reduced lower than 
half the starting value in this way. Thus, a Body 3 drone 
may be reduced to 2 Body for 1 Mod Point, but not to 1 
as this is lower than half the starting Body, which would 
be 1.5.) 
ARMOR
(Availability = Upgraded Rating, may be R or F)
For some strange reason, people want their drones to 
survive. Funny, that! Adding armor is frowned upon by po-
lite society, however, so you might have to face a few ques-
tions from authorities worried that you’re making some 
kind of aerial assassination robot. Not that you’d do that, 
of course. Armor greater than 6 is considered Restricted, 
while Armor greater than 12 is Forbidden. In addition, Ar-
mor is heavy. A drone may bear the weight of Armor equal 
to three times its Body without a decrease in ability, but for 
every 3 points beyond this, the drone suffers –1 Handling 
and Speed, while every 6 points also reduces Acceleration 
by 1. If this results in Handling dropping below 1, or either 
Speed or Acceleration dropping below 0, then the drone 
is unable to move at all. Cost equals the upgraded Armor 
multiplied by the drone’s Body, then multiplied by 200. In-
creasing to an Armor of 15 on a Body 3 drone would cost 
(15 x 3) x 200, or 45 x 200, or 9,000 nuyen.
SENSOR
(Availability = Upgraded Sensor x 2)
Cameras to see, mics to hear, and short-range radar 
for parking. Sensors take many shapes and sizes, but 
fortunately they don’t take the size of the drone’s frame 
into account. Upgraded Sensors are thus much easier 
to calculate. The cost is equal to the upgraded Sensor 
rating x 1,000 nuyen. A single sensor may be upgraded 
instead of the entire array for (Rating) x 100 nuyen.
PILOT
More on this under Software Solutions!
OTHER MODIFICATIONS
Each of the following mods is listed with a cost in Mod 
Points, Availability, and nuyen. Not all mods are appro-
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<    123

==== R5 124 ====
priate for all drones, of course; the gamemaster is the 
final arbitrator in what is and isn’t allowed. 
WEAPON MOUNTS
Probably the most common drone mod is finding a 
way to strap weapons onto one. Due to the small size 
of drones, standard vehicle mounts aren’t always ap-
propriate, so drones use weapon mounts from the fol-
lowing chart. Each weapon mount added uses up the 
listed number of Mod Points (listed as MP), allowing 
a drone to sometimes mount several smaller weapons 
rather than a single large one. All weapon mounts are 
at least Restricted, while some are Forbidden outside of 
military use as shown. In addition, authorities are quite 
interested in what weapons are mounted in them! In 
most nations, it’s illegal for a drone to mount anything 
other than non-lethal weaponry. The CAS is a notable 
exception to this rule.
OPTION: POP-OUT MOUNTS
Ordinarily a weapon mount is quite obvious, as is the 
weapon mounted therein. Since shadowrunners tend 
to have quite illegal things mounted on their drones, 
this can be problematic, as you might imagine. There 
are two disguises for weapon mounts that can be used 
on drones. The first are blow-away panels. These are 
simple coverings that are designed to be ejected just 
before the weapon is triggered. Once blown away, the 
weapon is left exposed and obvious, but this method 
is both cheap and easy. Blow-away panels may be in-
stalled with a simple Kit, and cost 25 nuyen x the MP of 
the weapon mount. A Perception + Intuition [Mental] 
(2) Test will reveal that there’s something covered, but 
not what it is. Once the panel is blown away, it cannot 
be recovered.
The other option is “pop-up” weapons (or pop-out, 
or pop-under as the case may be). These are weapons 
stored inside the body of the drone, deployed on com-
mand (requiring a Free Action), then retracted again with 
another command (also a Free Action). Much harder to 
detect (requiring a Perception (4) Test) and re-usable, 
the mechanisms are a bit cumbersome and complex, 
adding 1 to the number of MP consumed by a weapon 
thus concealed. (For example, a standard mount with 
pop-up options would cost 4 MP.)  Pop-up mounts may 
be installed with a Shop, and they cost 100 nuyen x the 
increased MP of the weapon.
OPTION: EXPANDED 
AMMUNITION BAY
Unlike normal vehicular weapons, the tight constraints 
of a drone’s body offer limited ammunition reserves. 
JUST HOW FAST IS THAT, ANYWAY?
While the speed of many vehicles was listed in SR5 (p. 
200), there are advanced rules. Speed for drones is listed with 
an appropriate letter code indicating its type of travel: G for 
ground, R for rotor, J for jet, or W for water. When comparing 
speed across modes, note that in order of relative speed, they 
line up like this (from slowest to fastest): Water, Ground, Rotor, 
and Jet. Drones will have trouble catching up to a drone or 
vehicle traveling in a faster mode. For more information, see 
chapter nine, Maximum Pursuit. 
WEAPON MOUNTS
MOUNT MP AVAIL WEAPON
Micro 0 8R Single-shot bullet or dart. 
Mini 1 4R Hold-out pistol, light pistol, 
reach 0 melee weapons, 
single-shot grenade
Small 2 8R Heavy pistol, machine pistol
Standard 3 10F Sub-machine gun, under-
barrel grenade launcher
Large 4 12F Shotgun, hunting rifle, 
assault rifle, grenade 
launcher
Huge 5 16F Sniper rifle, light or medium 
machine gun
Heavy 6 20F Heavy machine gun, rocket 
launcher, assault cannon
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
124    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<

==== R5 125 ====
Any weapon mounted on a drone uses the weapon’s 
normal ammunition limits, rather than the expanded 
version of a vehicle’s. There are, however, two optional 
ammunition bays for drones. The first is simply adding 
a second bin, which holds the same number of am-
munition as the weapon ordinarily holds, and a small 
switching unit to feed the weapon when one runs dry. 
This may be installed with a Kit, uses 1 MP, and costs 
50 nuyen.
The other option is a full belt-feed system, replacing 
the weapon’s normal ammunition feed mechanism en-
tirely. This requires a shop, makes the weapon belt-fed, 
and provides enough room for an entire belt of 100 
rounds. Additional expanded ammunition bays may 
then be added, each holding another 100-round belt. A 
belt-feed system requires a Shop, uses 2 MP, and costs 
500 nuyen.
REALISTIC FEATURES
One of the most-requested modifications, realistic fea-
tures are found on several spy drones, allowing them to 
blend in with local birds or insects. This type of modifica-
tion also remains popular with anthropomorphic drones 
in an effort to humanize them. As the design approaches 
a more realistic model, the cost, as you might imagine, 
increases. Realistic features are available in four ratings, 
each rating serving as the threshold on a Perception test 
to tell if it’s machine or a living being. 
Rating 1, Availability 2, Cost (Body x Body) x 100
Rating 2, Availability 4, Cost (Body x Body ) x 500
Rating 3, Availability 8, Cost (Body x Body ) x 1,000
Rating 4, Availability 12R, Cost (Body x Body ) x 5,000 
While many drones can be made realistic (receiving 
Rating 1), allowing them to pass at a casual glance at a 
distance or at night, wheels, quad fans, and so on are 
quite difficult to disguise. Most drones cannot be given 
Realistic Features beyond Rating 1, while some cannot 
even obtain that level. (The gamemaster is the final arbi-
trator on what is and isn’t appropriate.) Realistic Features 
2 can be added with a Shop, but higher than this requires 
a Facility (most drones this realistic are designed as such 
before being sold).
AMPHIBIOUS
An amphibious drone comes in two ratings: Rating 1 
allows it to float on the surface of a body of water, as 
long as it’s relatively still, and while vulnerable to being 
submerged, it’s waterproof on the underbody. Rating 
2 Amphibious makes the entire drone waterproof, al-
lowing it to be submerged without harm. Note that in 
either case, you’ll want a motive system! Rating 1 re-
quires a Shop, 1 Mod Point, and costs (Body x Body) x 
100 nuyen. Rating 2 requires a Facility, 2 Mod Points, 
and costs (Body x Body) x 1,000 nuyen.
ASSEMBLY TIME 
IMPROVEMENT
Many drones are designed to be partially disassembled 
to allow for ease of storage and transport, most nota-
bly several winged drones whose propulsion method 
and wings can be removed so that the entire rig can 
be transported via car, then re-assembled for use. To 
assemble or disassemble a drone with this modification 
requires (Body) minutes and an appropriate Mechanics 
+ Logic test with a threshold of 2. This upgrade can be 
done with a Shop, requires 1 MP, and costs (Body) x 
100 nuyen.
CUSTOMIZED
Pure cosmetic differences, including flashing LED 
lights, snazzy paint, or chrome trim, can make a world 
of difference in making your drone what you want it 
to be. There is no game effect from these mods, but 
they’re pretty to look at! Customization can be done 
with a Kit, uses no MP, and can cost anywhere from 
10–10,000 nuyen.
DRONE ARM
Similar to a cyberarm, a drone arm is much cheaper due 
to the lack of flesh-chrome connections and sensory 
translation. Unless otherwise noted, use the standard 
cyberlimb rules, though the limb costs half of the normal 
price. (Upgrades for the arm are at full price, however.) A 
drone’s cyberlimb starts with a Strength equal to its Body 
and an Agility equal to its Pilot. If the drone is using the 
arm for a test that would normally be Agility-based, use 
the limb’s Agility, rather than the drone’s Pilot Rating. A 
drone limb may have the base drone’s starting attributes 
as much as doubled, no matter how many increases that 
is. The limb attributes may not go higher. (This means a 
Body 5 drone could have a strength increased from 5 to 
10, ignoring the usual cap of +4 to an attribute, but may 
not go higher.) Drone limb armor does not affect the 
drone in any way, but having a limb provides +1 to the 
physical condition monitor as normal. Adding a drone 
arm requires a Shop and uses 1 MP.
OPTION: PRIMITIVE ARM
While a normal drone arm has a metahuman’s level 
of functionality, some drones save money by using a 
simpler arm. These arms have brushes, or suction cups, 
with a more limited range of options. These limbs suf-
fer –2 to any limit on tests requiring fine manipulation 
or weapon use with that limb, but the limb costs ten 
percent of the normal price, rather than fifty percent.
DRONE LEG
Walkers have legs, sometimes two, usually more. These 
operate similar to a cyberleg, but much cheaper as per 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<    125

==== R5 126 ====
drone arms. Drone speed is never based on limb Agility, 
so there is usually little point to upgrading this and, as per 
drone arms, cyberlimb armor placed on a drone doesn’t 
affect the drone in any way. Drone legs do not add extra 
boxes to the drone’s Physical condition monitor. 
GECKO GRIPS 
By coating the motive systems with gecko-glove-like 
materials, the drone can cling to virtually any surface. 
This allows it to climb vertical, or even hang upside 
down, as long as the surface has a Barrier Rating at 
least equal to the drone’s Body x 3. Gecko grips require 
a Shop, use 1 MP, and cost (Body x 3) x 50 nuyen. Note 
that larger drones may have gecko grips, but will have a 
hard time finding a surface able to hold them!
IMMOBILE
A drone that is immobile can’t move under its own 
power. These drones have a Speed and Acceleration 
of 0, which cannot be upgraded. On the positive side, 
they gain +2 Mod Points for not having a drive train. 
Making a drone immobile requires a Shop but doesn’t 
cost anything other than a day’s labor.
SKYGUIDE
By linking with SkyGuide, a drone can use the network’s 
own guidance systems to get where it needs to be. The 
downside is that the system takes priority over the own-
er’s commands, allowing the drone to be controlled by 
the Guide, or Riggers employed by SkyGuide, against 
the owner’s wishes. The upside is that SkyGuide pro-
vides both a Navigation (6) autosoft and a Maneuver (6) 
autosoft to any drone while it’s logged in to the network. 
Standard issue on flying drones sold form 2078 forward, 
it may be added to older drone with a Kit, requires 0 MP, 
and costs 5 nuyen, plus a 10 nuyen/year user fee.
SPOTLIGHT
Mounted externally, a drone spotlight acts as a flash-
light in all ways. It requires a Kit, uses 0 MP, and costs 
50 nuyen.
SUSPENSION MOD
Ground drones have an easily modified undercarriage, 
ultimately allowing the owner to replace the motive 
systems with some work. The base Handling of these 
suspensions is as follows; Standard 4/2, Tracked 3, or 
Off-road 2/4. Changing from one to another requires 
a Shop, uses no MP, and costs (Body x 3) x 100 nuyen.
TIRE MOD
Wheeled drones may have the wheels replaced in a 
pinch, serving a role roughly akin to a modified sus-
pension but not quite as good. The wheels increase the 
lower Handling Rating by 1, while lowering the better 
Handling by 2, until they are replaced again. (Thus, a 
4/2 becomes a 2/3, while a 2/4 becomes a 3/2.) This 
exchange requires a Kit, uses 0 MP, and costs (Body x 
3) x 25 nuyen. (Note that the old tires may be kept and 
this mod removed at a later time, restoring the normal 
Handling.)
SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS
What, you thought modern cars were all about me-
chanical grease monkeys and wrenches? Pfft! If you’re 
working on anything made in the past quarter-cen-
tury, you need to know computers to get it to run, 
and if you know computers, you’d know how much 
you don’t know about the subject. For the most part, 
both vehicles and drones are simple things, needing 
enough brainpower to go from A to B, do something 
when they arrive, then wait for more orders. Cars that 
come when you signal or drones that swoop over an 
area for recon are basic, but most riggers want to take 
over for anything more complex. I’m here to tell you 
that that’s not always needed. A good Pilot program 
can handle more than you think, since you’re mostly 
used to dog brains on low-end commercial models, 
and while you’ve not been paying attention, the auto-
soft market got smarter.
PILOTS
It all starts with the Pilot, the main brain of your new ma-
chine. For ninety-five percent of the people out there, the 
pilot of their car or house-cleaning drone is what they’re 
used to. It can play music, keep your car at the right 
speed, or clean up a spill, but you wouldn’t trust it with 
anything important (he says, knowing full well that most 
commuters tell their car where to go, then lean back, fire 
up their commlink, and entertain themselves until the car 
tells them that they’ve arrived, never realizing that they 
have a two-ton bullet under their butt). Security drones 
have a more advanced Pilot program, with advanced fire/
don’t fire protocols based on potential targets in the area 
(or the known value of stored supplies) that can also use 
predictive algorithms to guess where you’ll be next when 
you get out of sight. “Retail brains” are simple pilots on 
par with cars, able to do one thing, for instance your taxes 
or legal research, but nothing else. 
Then you get fancy.
Advanced Pilot programs are comparable not to 
dogs, but to small children or, in some cases, adult meta-
humans. There aren’t many that can make this claim, but 
led by military research where drones had to account 
for dozens of factors at once, Pilot programs have got-
ten smarter. I’m partial to the Djinn-IV Pilot from Saed-
er-Krupp myself; it’s like having a child around the 
house, curious about everything and capable of some 
astounding leaps of logic. The top-end programs are re-
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
126    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<

==== R5 127 ====
stricted to military use, but I’ve gotten my hands on a 
few and, each time, they’ve developed personalities be-
yond what I ever expected. Like the armored personnel 
carrier that liked to “dance” to the almighty Troggs.
The Pilot program determines the Rating of the drone 
as a whole, serves as the primary source of attributes for 
skill tests, serves as a cap on the highest rating autosoft 
the drone can run, and more. Is there any reason that it’s 
in such high demand? Civilian Pilot programs are generally 
Rating 2 (or, rarely, 1), restricted security Pilots are 3 to 4, 
while military-grade Pilots (5 to 6) are Forbidden for gener-
al use. Cost and Availability are shown on the chart below:
AUTOSOFTS
It all ends with autosoft programs, the detailed com-
mands that ensure a Pilot does what you want, when 
you want it. New autosofts are released every year—
some expected, some quite the surprise. They don’t 
cover all situations yet, but there’s much more a drone 
can do than spy or shoot. Some of the most common 
ones are shown below.
A Pilot program may not run an autosoft of a higher 
Rating than itself (meaning a Rating 3 Pilot may run an 
Autosoft with a Rating of 1, 2, or 3, but not 4 or high-
er). When using a rigger command console, the console 
may run a higher-Rating autosoft and share that with the 
drone, allowing it to exceed its normal capabilities. So if 
you have an Aztechnology Crawler Clearsight 6 autosoft 
slotted into your RCC, each of your Aztechnology Crawl-
ers may use it at the full value of 6.
Some skills are Restricted or Forbidden. Those will be 
indicated on the individual autosoft profile. Remember 
also that an autosoft is designed for only a single drone; 
you cannot slot a Clearsoft autosoft designed for an Az-
technology Crawler into an Evo Proletarian. (Well, you 
can; it just doesn’t do anything.) 
SMARTSOFT (RESTRICTED)
This is the same smartlink provided in eyeware or video 
enhancements, integrated into the sensors of a vehicle 
or drone. The Smartsoft is considered a Rating 3 auto-
soft and allows the full use of smart weapons.
GROUP
A shared-signal autosoft that allows each drone 
equipped with it to answer the same command, rather 
than requiring you to issue commands to one at a time. 
The Group autosoft is considered a Rating 2 autosoft.
SKILLSET
The Skillset autosoft gives the listed skill to the drone. 
The Rating can be from 1 to 6 as normal, but note that 
some Skillset autosoft are Restricted. The following 
skills may be taken as an autosoft:
Academic Knowledge (any single knowledge)
Chemistry (Restricted) 
Demolitions (Restricted)
Electronic Warfare (Restricted)
First Aid
Hardware 
Instruction
Language (any single language)
Lockpicking (Restricted)
Mechanic (any single Mechanic skill)
Medicine (Restricted)
Melee (as Targeting, but for a specific melee combat 
weapon)
Navigation
Performance (any single perform skill. Song-a-Mat 
evolves!)
Professional Knowledge (any single knowledge)
SOFTWARE TWEAKS
There are also some minor modifications that can be 
made to programs that have no real effect on the over -
all performance but allow for some customization. 
PERSONALITY
(Availability 4, Cost 100¥)
Many people treat their drones as pets, and a per -
sonality tweak can go a long way to help. A Pilot with a 
Personality will develop a “flavor” all to itself, evolving 
PILOTS
RATING AVAIL COST
1 4 100¥
2 — 400¥
3 8R 1800¥
4 12R 3200¥
5 16F 10,000¥
6 24F 20,000¥
AUTOSOFT PRICES
While this is in the official SR5 Errata, not everyone has 
access to the Internet and, quite frankly, there’s no better place 
to list them than Rigger 5.0. So here they are!
SOFTWARE AVAIL COST
Autosoft (1–6) (Rating) x 2 (Rating) x 500
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<    127

==== R5 128 ====
a unique set of features over time depending on how 
it’s treated and what it regularly does. Some are playful, 
some are territorial, some adorably clumsy, some are 
calm—the exact personality can be specified when pur -
chased, but most allow their drone to develop naturally. 
LINGUISTICS
(Availability 4, Cost 50¥)
When a drone is designed, it comes pre-loaded with 
two languages: one native to the manufacturer and one 
native to where it will be sold. In the UCAS, this is usually 
Japanese and English, but not always. A Pilot may contain 
as many Linguistics autosofts as its Rating, so few add more 
than the initial two, but more can be added, or old ones 
deleted and replaced, as long as room is present. Keep in 
mind that Linguistics are used for verbal commands and 
have a very limited vocabulary; you cannot use your mo-
torcycle’s German Linguistics to eavesdrop on Hans Brack-
haus and expect it to tell you what was said. Come here, go 
there, shoot that guy, find the nearest McHugh’s, and sim-
ilar commands are about as much as it can handle. (How-
ever, there was enough demand that Renraku introduced 
actual translation software, the Language autosoft, which 
other corporations quickly picked up on.)
DRONE CATALOG
And now the part you’ve all been waiting for! I’ve 
culled this list from several different sources, picking a 
few personal favorites, some up-and-coming specials, 
and some old classics. There’s a lot going on down be-
low, so hang on to your command console!
MICRODRONES
HORIZON “NOIZQUITO”
(PILOT AIRCRAFT)
The Aztlan-Amazonian War was ostensibly about two 
nations fighting over resources, but it was also a proxy 
war between Aztechnology and Horizon, who were 
fighting for the hearts and minds of the world. In this 
fight, Horizon attempted to act primarily through cat’s-
paws and cut-outs, avoiding a direct confrontation that 
could lead to bad press. Thus, rather than providing 
weapons and materiel to the Amazonians, Horizon 
developed a drone that could do what Horizon does 
best—harass and annoy.
The NoizQuito was developed as a flying micro 
drone with a few special tricks. Visually similar to a 
mosquito, the body of the drone can only house a small 
number of features. The most prevalent and obvious of 
these features is the speaker system. The drone can 
blast sounds as loud as 160 decibels (which is the vol-
ume of high-end race cars), which are used to produce 
distractions and possibly even minor ear damage in 
those unfortunate enough to be near the drone when 
it activates. Additionally, the drone’s wings and body 
are covered in small LEDs that are powerful enough to 
produce blinding levels of light in a bewildering array 
of strobe patterns.
> I hate these things. They hurt friends and foes alike, and 
a swarm of them is enough to drive someone insane. 
Whichever Horizon R&D guy designed this thing deserves 
to be shot.
> Picador
> If you’d like, I can put together a package. PM me to make 
arrangements.
> Cosmo
> Horizon didn’t get this drone out fast enough to make an 
impact on the outcome of the war, and they lost out big on 
the opportunity to advertise this drone to the world as a 
result. They’re making their way through the market now, 
but progress has been slow.
> Dr. Spin
Standard Upgrades: Flying, speakers, strobes
Game Information: When activated, the strobes im-
pose a –2 penalty to all actions by those who are cur -
rently looking in the direction of the drone. This penalty 
is reduced to –1 if the target has flare compensation. 
The speakers impose a –2 penalty to all actions by those 
within earshot of the drone, which is lessened to –1 for 
those with a sound damper system. If there are multiple 
drones acting as a group, the penalties are cumulative 
for each drone (meaning that if three drones are working 
as one, the target can take as much as a –12 penalty to 
all actions).
Note: “Earshot” has the potential to be quite far, but 
the physics calculations for determining actual earshot 
are too complicated for a roleplaying game. As always, 
the gamemaster has the final say in determining who (or 
what) is affected.
HORIZON “NOIZQUITO” (MICRO DRONE)
HANDL SPEED ACCEL BODY ARM PILOT SENS AVAIL COST
4 3R 2 1 0 3 3 10R 2,000¥
SONY GOLDFISH
(PILOT WATERCRAFT)
Sized to realistic proportions and capable of dives of 
up to four meters deep, the Renraku Goldfish is a prime 
example of an entry-level water drone, suitable as a 
trainer for youths who look toward a future as robotic 
operators or hobbyists who wish to explore local wa-
tering holes below the surface.
Standard Upgrades: Submersible
Similar Models: Mitsuhama Minnow, NeoNET Pinkeens
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
128    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY  <<
