

===== RF p218 =====
>	
Four Point Delivery Services. Weapons and other gear 
delivered to Pacific Rim destinations. They are on the 
Matrix if you’ve forgotten to bring something when you 
get to your destination.
>	
Red Anya
ASSETS
Your house is not just where you eat and sleep, it’s 
where you clean your gun, study magic, and maybe 
cook a little hooch. Assets are the tangible things that 
you can access. To everyone I’ve had to work with, ac-
cess to showers are a must. It’s not your reputation that 
precedes you; it’s your three-day binge after the last 
paycheck. Another must is a nearby laundromat. Wear-
ing dried blood to a meet-up can very easily send the 
wrong kind of message. 
>	
A sanctum of peace where one resolves internal conflict is 
also useful for those in our line of business.
>	
Man-of-Many-Names
>	
Not to crash /dev/grrl’s work, but I’d like to throw in a few 
comments on fashion relating to lifestyle. 
1. You will be treated as you appear. Try to blend in 
when you want to be invisible. Try to clash when you want 
attention. Try to be as ostentatious as possible when you 
want people to remember the clothing and not the person 
in them.
2. Never assume. That guy sleeping in the gutter in the 
beat-up lined coat drinking from a paper bag? Maybe he’s 
a street sam waiting for an excuse to show you his cyber 
enhancements and martial skills as he beats you into the 
ground.
>	
Plan 9
>	
Or he’s just a bum.
>	
Pistons
>	
Who is a contact of an enemy and is being paid to watch 
and report on who goes in and out of a building.
>	
Plan 9
Bolt holes and safehouses are common parts of a 
shadowrunner’s life. I’ve covered this before, but let’s 
sum up briefly: Bolt holes are prearranged, cash-only paid 
spaces that you crawl into when the shit hits the fan. Bolt 
holes are usually set up in advance and then left to sit in 
whatever dark, unseen place they inhabit. A bolt hole isn’t 
some vacation home in the Bahamas—it’s more likely a 
cargo crate with food rations, a chemical toilet, and noth-
ing but time on your hands to contemplate your sins and 
what to do next. A few people may share a bolt hole, but 
they might kill each other if they stay confined too long. 
A safehouse is much like what you see in the trids. 
A little out-of-the way home used on a temporary basis 
to keep people safe as they are moved out of the city/
country or just until business is taken care of. Corpora-
tions and governments use them for witness protection 
or to offer them to shadowrunners to babysit assets. 
A safehouse is generally a step up from a bolt hole. In 
that they tend to be controlled by some House Master/
Madame who maintains whatever operating façade the 
safe house has constructed. 
GAME INFORMATION
Presented here are optional rules for gamemasters and 
players to use to add more depth and playability to a 
character’s lifestyle. A lifestyle is divided into four cat-
egories: Comforts & Necessities (C&N), Security (S), 
Neighborhood (N), and Entertainment (E).
Each lifestyle has preset levels for these four cat-
egories, plus a set of points that can be spent to raise 
individual levels or buy entertainment options. Lifestyle 
categories cannot be lowered (unless, of course, you 
switch to a lower lifestyle level). Each lifestyle also has 
a category limit, listed in brackets next to the base level. 
The category cannot be raised higher than this limit. The 
Entertainment category does not have a level. Instead 
of being used to raise the level, points can be used to 
buy specific entertainment options (p. 219). Not all the 
points for each lifestyle need to be spent—each point 
can raise the monthly cost of the lifestyle, so players 
have to consider the benefits they get and the costs of 
gaining them. Each point spent on Comforts & Neces-
sities, Security, or Neighborhood increases the Lifestyle 
cost by ten percent of the base lifestyle. Points spent in 
the Entertainment category vary in cost; depending on 
the associated lifestyle, they may not bring in additional 
costs (see Entertainment, p. 219, as well as the informa-
tion for each category).
Lifestyle options (p. 224) can be taken to get more 
points for the lifestyle or reduce one or more categories. 
The negative options cannot reduce the level of a cat-
egory below 0; if an option would do that, it cannot be 
selected. A lifestyle can gain up to twice the starting life-
style points when taking lifestyle options. Some positive 
options can increase the limit; this is noted with each 
option. Additionally, some lifestyles come with lifestyle 
options already included. These are noted in the lifestyle 
descriptions below.
BOLT HOLE
Living the Bolt Hole lifestyle is not pretty. A bolt hole 
is a space away from everything (people, grid, enter-
tainment), and most often you’re stuck in it for a while 
because you need to stay out of sight. Add 4 to the 
threshold of any test involving someone trying to track 
a character who is living la vida Bolt Hole. In the En-
tertainment category, assets can be bought for a Bolt 
Hole, but not services or outings (see p. 219). Bolt 
holes only have a monthly cost when used. The char-
>> RUN FASTER <<
216    A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN >>


===== RF p219 =====
acter pays for the whole month, even if he used it for a 
day, or even just a few hours (though if you only need 
to hide for a few hours, use a no-tell motel already).
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 1[2]
•	
Security: 1[4]
•	
Neighborhood: 1[4]
•	
Points: 4
•	
Built-in option: Not A Home
•	
Cost: 1,000 ¥
STREET
See category description on p. 373, SR5. In this cate-
gory, increased levels in the Comforts & Necessities, 
Security, and Neighborhood categories result in a flat 
increase of 50 nuyen per level per month. Entertain-
ments come with their normal listed costs, but any as-
sets or services the player wants to purchase must be 
approved by the gamemaster, as they would have to be 
usable/accessible by the general public.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 0[1]
•	
Security: 0[1]
•	
Neighborhood: 0[1]
•	
Points: 2
•	
Cost: 0¥ a month
FASHION BY LIFESTYLE
There are certain styles of clothes that come with each lifestyle; 
for each month of lifestyle purchased, characters get one set of 
clothes. If they want more, they have to buy them separately. If the 
character wants to make an impression or go slumming, they should 
purchase clothing that matches that lifestyle. There is also a social 
stigma of not dressing the part. When you are going to an interview 
with Mr. Johnson, you should be wearing clothes at the same social 
level as Mr. Johnson or at least the same level as the locale where 
you are meeting him. Most often, Mr. Johnson meets at some high-
class restaurant while he is dressed for success. The gamemaster 
may opt to impose a dice-pool penalty depending on how far the 
team’s dress is from where it should be.
Robin and her merry gang have just gotten their 
first meet with Mr. Johnson at a posh restaurant. Robin 
puts on her special little black dress made with real silk 
(Luxury class). As she arrives, she finds that her gang 
must have come from a combat biker rally, as they 
are wearing faux-black leather and smelling of cheap 
smokes and sweat. So as to not cause embarrassment 
(her little gang would have penalized her negotiations, 
leaving her to explain to Mr. Johnson that they really are 
professionals and/or apologize), she threatens them all 
with bodily harm if they don’t go home and come back 
clean and properly attired.
STREET AND SQUATTER
Vendingwear is a cheap option for people looking for modest 
covering, and if you have a Street or Squatter lifestyle, that’s what 
you get. Vendingwear is recycled plastic that is shredded and woven 
into fabric (with an elastic band for pants, socks, and underwear). It 
has no options except for color (avocado green or dirt brown) and 
size (small, medium, large, and extra-large). Many people who live 
on the street turn in bottles or old vendingwear to get new clothes. 
Prices range from 1 to 20 nuyen.
LOW
Besides thrift stores selling cast-off clothes of the middle class, 
Beaux Retail (Mitsuhama) has simple casual (20 nuyen) to business 
(100 nuyen) clothing made from industrial polymers and put together 
by the cheapest labor available. Kong Walmart has many affordable 
knockoff brands. Prices range from 20 to 150 nuyen.
MEDIUM
For business, you can go as high as Wellington Bros (Shiawase 
Fashion); for casual wear, Vashon Island (Shiawase Fashion) and 
Victory (Ares) won’t break the bank. Prices range from 150 to 500 
nuyen.
HIGH
A High lifestyle can always default to the original Très Chic 
Clothing (Aztechnology) for business or casual wear. Optionally 
there’s also a more Old World look with RhineGold (Saeder-Krupp) or 
Styling wearing KoGo (Wuxing). Prices range from 500 to 1,000 nuyen.
LUXURY
Designer clothes are a must for people living the Luxury lifestyle. 
This includes designs from artists such as Berwick (Mortimer of 
London), Armanté (Zoë), and Jean-Paul. Prices range from 1,000 to 
5,000 nuyen.
>> RUN FASTER <<
<< A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN    217


===== RF p220 =====
SQUATTER
See category description on p. 373, SR5. 
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 1[2]
•	
Security: 1[2]
•	
Neighborhood: 1[2]
•	
Points: 2
•	
Cost: 500 ¥ a month
LOW
See category description on p. 373, SR5. 
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 2[3]
•	
Security: 2[3]
•	
Neighborhood: 2[3]
•	
Points: 3
•	
Cost: 2,000 ¥ a month
MEDIUM
See category description on p. 373, SR5.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 3[4]
•	
Security: 3[4]
•	
Neighborhood: 4[5]
•	
Points: 4
•	
Cost: 5,000 ¥ a month
HIGH
See category description on p. 373, SR5.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 4[6]
•	
Security: 4[6]
•	
Neighborhood: 5[6]
•	
Points: 6
•	
Cost: 10,000 ¥ a month
LUXURY
See category description on p. 373, SR5.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 5[7]
•	
Security: 5[8]
•	
Neighborhood: 5[7]
•	
Points: 12
•	
Cost: 100,000 ¥ a month
TRAVELER (1D6 + 2 POINTS)
The traveler keeps mobile and packs light. Every month 
the traveler stays someplace new, often settling by 
chance. He may end up at a discounted honeymoon 
suite one month then a coffin motel the next. The play-
er rolls 1D6 to determine the number of points allocat-
ed to the lifestyle for that month. The player can spend 
points to Comforts, Security, or Necessities. The rest 
of the premise is designed by gamemaster, including 
what Entertainment is or is not available. In the Enter-
tainment category, only assets and services are added 
by the gamemaster, and they do not add to the cost of 
the lifestyle as they are provided by the establishment. 
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 2[4]
•	
Security: 2[4]
•	
Neighborhood: 2[4]
•	
Points: 1D6 + 2
•	
Cost: 3,000 ¥ a month
COMMERCIAL
This lifestyle is a storefront, not a proper residence to 
live in. The lifestyle includes a location where the char-
acter can manufacture, fence, or repair goods. The lo-
cation associated with this lifestyle includes permits to 
sell specific legal items. Because it’s a business that can 
make money, the monthly cost can vary. When renting 
an establishment, the character should make a Charisma 
+ Etiquette (Corporate) [Social] test at the start of each 
month. Each net hit reduces the monthly cost by 1,000 
for that month, representing the savvy business sense 
the character has while running the establishment.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 3[4]
•	
Security: 3[7]
•	
Neighborhood: 4[6]
•	
Points: 4
•	
Cost: 8,000 ¥ a month
LIFESTYLE 
CATEGORIES
COMFORTS & 
NECESSITIES 
Comforts & Necessities are an integral part of any life-
style. If a shadowrunner doesn’t get a good night’s rest 
and a belly full of nutrient-added soy, he’ll eventually 
end up at the morgue. This is because of the possibil-
ity of fatigue damage (p. 172, SR5). At the beginning 
of most game sessions, characters roll to resist fatigue 
damage, simulating how much rest they have been 
able to get in their quarters. Characters do not, how-
ever, have to make this roll if the new session directly 
continues an adventure from the previous one and they 
have not had a chance to rest in whatever domicile is 
part of their lifestyle. Base Fatigue damage that charac-
ters must resist is 6S. For each level in the Comforts & 
Necessities category, reduce the DV by 2. 
Additional factors may affect the damage the char-
acter must resist. For example, having allergies can be 
a hassle, especially food allergies where choices are 
limited. Allergies to things found in the environment 
(such as pollution, ultraviolet rays, plastic, etc.) increase 
the Fatigue damage characters must resist by 1 per level 
above mild for common allergies and 1 per level above 
moderate for uncommon allergies if the Comforts & 
Necessities category of the lifestyle is level three or 
lower. Allergies to foods can be problematic, as some 
special dietary requirements may not be available in all 
>> RUN FASTER <<
218    A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN >>


===== RF p221 =====
lifestyles. Allergies to common foodstuffs (soy, myco-
protein, etc.) also increase the fatigue damage value by 
1 per level above mild if the Comforts & Necessities cat-
egory of the lifestyle is level 3 or lower. For uncommon 
allergies, the damage value increases by 1 if the allergy 
is Severe, 2 if it is Extreme.
SECURITY
Security covers a broad sense of how much a deterrent 
your place is to unwanted guests and criminal activities 
other than your own. Those living on the street can only 
protect what they can hold on to, while people higher up 
the lifestyle food chain have a physical location that can 
store and protect their stuff, rather than having to carry it 
all around with them all the time. Each point into security 
reduces the risk of theft of the character’s stuff at home. 
The exact details of when this comes into play are left up 
to the gamemaster, but one example is a Security Test 
representing how well the place is watched by security 
officers, alarms, and other security measures. If anyone 
attempts a burglary at the character’s domicile while the 
character is away, roll a dice pool of (Security level x 2) 
against the Sneaking + Agility of the burglars. If the Se-
curity wins the test, security officers have noticed the 
attempt, or a home alarm has been triggered, or some 
other event has occurred to indicate that the burglars ran 
afoul of the security measures without the player having 
to do a thing. For reference to various aspects of security 
besides being armed and dangerous, see p. 355, SR5.
The gamemaster should also look at the rare items 
the character owns compared to the security of the life-
style. If the item’s Availability is more than twice the Se-
curity level, chances are someone/thing will notice the 
item and want to steal it. The greater the discrepancy, 
the more likely the item will be targeted.
The gamemaster is encouraged to decide and role-
play out such events, especially if it helps with the ad-
venture/campaign. Alternatively, the gamemaster can 
abstract the potential for attempted theft with a test 
using a dice pool equal to the difference between the 
minimum Security level of a lifestyle required and the 
actual Security level purchased by the player. For each 
hit, the player must pay one percent of the monthly cost 
of the lifestyle to replace stolen goods or repair dam-
aged properly (or pay insurance premiums that help 
them deal with such things). Nothing exceedingly valu-
able should go missing in this test. Burglary of a truly 
valuable item requires the Security Test detailed above.
NEIGHBORHOOD
Neighborhood is an abstract category covering what is 
acceptable behavior, safety, and general atmosphere. 
In the Sixth World, Neighborhood Zone classifications 
have been developed to give a quick snapshot of an area 
and the typical lifestyles in it. The Neighborhood Zone 
table lists those classifications. Between Neighborhood 
and Security, the gamemaster and player should be able 
to develop a clear picture of what a neighborhood feels 
and looks like, and the gamemaster can then flesh it out. 
For example, a character might find that the D Zone he’s 
living in has been taken over by gangers or the Mafia 
when a made man knocks on the character’s door ask-
ing for a cup of sugar substitute. The gamemaster should 
consider how well the character’s activities and profes-
sion fit into the neighborhood. Guns and drugs in any 
zone below C may not make the neighbors blink an eye, 
but zone A or above, someone will probably say some-
thing. To avoid problems, the gamemaster could impose 
a higher lifestyle cost to account for the bribes the char-
acter has to pay to get people to look the other way.
ENTERTAINMENT
This category covers things that entertain, make life eas-
ier, and in general give the character things to do and 
people to see. Each of these perks has a monthly mone-
tary cost and a point cost, as well as a minimum “no cost” 
lifestyle. If the player purchases a lifestyle that meets or is 
greater (in base expense) than the no cost lifestyle, then 
the element can be added without extra nuyen costs, 
though points must still be spent (the financial costs are 
assumed to be covered in the overall lifestyle expense). 
A minimum lifestyle of “None” means that no lifestyle 
can cover the cost of this item; if the player wants it, they 
need to pony up. Some entertainment choices bring ad-
vantages, listed in each description. Note that generally 
each item can only be purchased once per domicile, un-
less the description says otherwise. These advantages 
also cannot be used unless the character is actively us-
ing the domicile. If, for example, they are paying for an 
apartment in Seattle but out in Manhattan on a job, the 
items and advantages tied to the Seattle location do not 
apply. There are three types of Entertainments: Assets, 
EXAMPLE
Sad Sam lives on the street and has a severe al-
lergy to soy and a moderate allergy to pollution. Every 
day he gets up coughing and red eyed from the pollu-
tion irritating his sinuses and nauseated from the soy 
snacks he was able to scrounge up. The Street life-
style has 0 levels in Comforts & Necessities, meaning 
Sam has the full 6S worth of Fatigue damage to resist. 
On top of that, the moderate allergy to pollution adds 
one more point to the damage value, and the severe 
soy allergy adds 2 more. That means he has to resist 
9S prior to starting the game session. And people 
wonder why Sam is always sad.
>> RUN FASTER <<
<< A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN    219


===== RF p222 =====
which are either physical characteristics of the domicile 
or facilities that are available nearby; Services, which are, 
well, services that the character can receive at home or 
in the neighborhood; and Outings, which represent op-
portunities in the neighborhood to go out and do things.
ARMORY
Point Cost: 2 
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 1,000¥
Minimum Lifestyle: High
Quite popular among shadowrunners is a room 
dedicated to guns. Ammo and one stock firearm dupli-
cating one that the character purchased at the charac-
ter creation are on hand in this room. If the character 
has purchased a toolkit that can work on the particular 
weapon, 1 point of Accuracy or AP can be repaired per 
week without additional cost. A point of Reach can also 
be repaired in two weeks.
CLEANING SERVICE
Point Cost: 1
Type: Service
Monthly Nuyen Cost: Special (see table)
Minimum Lifestyle: High
Cleaning services include tidying up the home and 
cleaning/mending clothes sent to them with some 
semblance of privacy guarantee. This service can be 
purchased several times for similar services such as 
landscape care, beauty salon/barber, and basic car 
>> RUN FASTER <<
NEIGHBORHOOD ZONE
NEIGHBORHOOD
ZONE
RESPONSE TIME*
DESCRIPTION
0
Z
2D6 Hours
This is a lawless area deep in the heart of many barrens. Criminal 
organizations and gangs can sometimes feel uneasy here. 
Awakened critters and toxic spirits tend to roam wild. Unless it’s a 
big incident, most security providers will find routes to avoid going 
through Z zones. Any type of residence can be found, though it will 
be in serious disrepair.
1
E
1D6 Hours
These are low-rent/industrial districts mostly filled with SINless 
squatters and the homeless. Heavy or toxic industrial facilities are 
included in E Zones. Security providers consider SINless “non-
people” for the purposes of their work, which means if it’s easier 
to solve a problem by shooting them, they will.
2
D
1D6 x 12 minutes
You can find these zones in the area between industrial and 
residential districts where the exposure to pollution is a little 
better than those who live right next to the smoke-churning 
factories. Or at least, that’s what the residents will tell you. 
Patrols come through this area, only because it’s inconvenient 
to go around. D zones can include run-down business district, 
abandoned warehouses, forgotten tenements, landfills, freeway 
junctions, old cemeteries, and large parking lots.
3
C
1D6 x 10 minutes
The district has seen better days and could use more than just a 
paint job to bring it up to snuff. You can find low-rent residences, 
storage facilities, small bodegas, and other similar sites in these 
zones.
4
B
1D6 x 5 minutes
This is where the middle class lives, along with the commercial 
places they use and the occasional light industrial facility.
5
A
2D6 +3 minutes
This features high-class residences and corporate buildings. 
6
AA
1D6+4 minutes
Here you’ll find luxury-class residences and posh commercial 
places. If you ask the price, you can’t afford to live here.
7
AAA
1D6 minutes
Corporate headquarters. Skyraker condos. And the occasional 
private islands. This is where the world’s wealthiest pay to make 
sure they’re kept safe.
* This represents the amount of time it takes law enforcement, fire, and medical services to respond to emergency calls (note that 
medical response times might vary based on the services an individual is paying for).
220    A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN >>


===== RF p223 =====
cleaning/maintenance. These services provide a rea-
sonable amount of privacy. These services can also 
include some specific enhancements. Mage-sensitive 
services destroy biomaterials of the individual that may 
be left behind on clothing or in a car/premise. Any ma-
terial link items found of the character at his domicile 
or in his vehicle are contaminated and cannot be used 
for ritual purposes. Pollution-sensitive services use less 
harsh chemicals and natural materials taking care of the 
character’s clothes or cleaning the home. This reduces 
Fatigue damage from environmental allergies the C&I 
by 1.
DISCREET CLEANING SERVICE
Point Cost: 4
Type: Service
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 10,000¥
Minimum Lifestyle: None
You know of an organization that can go to a prem-
ise and patch bullet holes, wash out blood stains, and 
cleanse the astral in under twenty-four hours (as long 
as it’s not a public or corporate place). At the listed cost, 
they will handle only one body disposal a month. If this 
limit is exceeded, the company may drop the character 
as a client. This service is tied to the character, so it does 
not end when they change lifestyles, as long as they 
keep paying the cost. 
DISCREET DELIVERYMAN/
CANDYMAN
Point Cost: 3
Type: Service
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 100¥/1,000¥
Minimum Lifestyle: None
You know a guy who can pick up and deliver any le-
gal item (within reason) without being noticed to your 
domicile. It may be one of many bicycle couriers dash-
ing over New York streets or a street urchin who can 
avoid many observers—either way, the delivery ser-
vice is subtle enough to not be noticed by observers. 
The Discreet Deliveryman/Candyman has a dice pool 
of 14 for Sneaking Tests and an Edge Rating of 4. They 
only cover delivering an item—the purchase of the item 
must be accomplished through normal means. Time to 
deliver is based on original price of the item. While the 
deliveryman can handle takeout food service and legal 
items with an Availability of 8 or less, the candyman can 
handle items up to Availability of 16, as well as restricted 
and illegal items.
GARAGE
Point Cost: *
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: *
Minimum Lifestyle: *
A garage is a large covered area with enough space 
to park and maintain a single vehicle. With the purchase 
of a Shop (p. 443, SR5) related to the vehicle, 1 box of 
damage to the vehicle can be repaired per week without 
additional financial cost, as the cost is absorbed by the 
lifestyle. Purchasing a Facility increases the repair rate to 
2 boxes of damage. Use the Build and Repair rules for 
quicker repairs (p.145, SR5, and p. 143, Run & Gun). This 
asset can be purchased more than once so that multiple 
vehicles can be serviced at the same time. The points 
cost, monthly nuyen cost, and minimum lifestyle de-
pend on the nature of the vehicle, as listed in the table.
GREENHOUSE
Point Cost: 2
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 500¥
Minimum Lifestyle: High
Your home has a small plot of land or a couple of pots 
of dirt to grow carrots, tomatoes, herbs, wheatgrass, etc. 
to accentuate daily meals. Reduce the environmental 
damage due to food allergies by 1.
>> RUN FASTER <<
CLEANING SERVICE TABLE
SERVICE
MONTHLY COST
Standard 
100¥
Mage sensitive
200¥
Pollution sensitive
400¥
GARAGE TABLE
VEHICLE
POINTS
MONTHLY 
COST
MINIMUM 
LIFESTYLE
Airplane
4
20,000
Luxury
Boat
3
5,000
High*
Car (Body 4 
or less)
1
50
Medium
Car (Body 5 
or greater)
2
100
Medium
Helicopter
4
10,000
Luxury**
*Includes space on a dock and access to launch the craft. 
Smaller personal watercraft can be treated the same as cars for 
the purposes of storage and repair in lieu of owning a dock.
**Includes access to a helicopter pad to launch the vehicle.
<< A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN    221


===== RF p224 =====
GRID SUBSCRIPTION
Point Cost: 1
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 50¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Middle
Nobody “downloads” or “records” their favorite song 
or movie any more. It’s all based on subscriptions and 
purchases within the Matrix and stored virtually on a grid. 
Commlinks and home entertainment systems connect 
you wirelessly to everything from photos you’ve taken to 
corporate-sponsored lines of entertainment that you can 
watch whenever you want. Without a grid subscription, 
you might as well have a throwback commlink with an 
antique external storage device, as the public grid only 
has trid shows from like two seasons ago. 
GYM
Point Cost: 2
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 300¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Medium
Weights, treadmill, elliptical quadrilateral, gradient tri-
cycle, or whatever device is trending. These devices help 
the character get physically fit, and they reduce the train-
ing time to improve physical stats by twenty percent.
INDOOR ARBORETUM
Point Cost: 2
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 500¥
Minimum Lifestyle: High
An increasing number of domiciles have a room ded-
icated to living vegetation. For the Awakened, it’s a bright 
spot in the astral plane. For the mundane, it’s a room free 
of pollutants as the plants absorb them from the air. Hav-
ing this asset reduces the Comforts & Necessities envi-
ronmental damage due to pollution allergies by 1 point.
LOCAL BAR PATRON
Point Cost: 1
Type: Outing
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 25¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Low
You have a bar that you frequent where everybody 
knows you. Your lifestyle covers the food and drinks 
from this spot. You may get an occasional free drink 
there from your buddies. Similar habitual locations in-
clude restaurants and fast-food joints. One specific loca-
tion is chosen when this entertainment option is select-
ed, and the feature can be purchased more than once to 
add different locations.
MERCHANDISE:  
GOODS (SPECIFIC ITEM)
Point Cost: 1+
Type: Service
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 10,000¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Commercial
This location will provide some sort of legal goods 
for sale. The item to be sold must be selected when this 
option is purchased. The base Availability for the select-
ed item is 3 for gear and low quality for miscellaneous 
items. For better quality or higher availability, more 
points must be spent to buy this service, with the max-
imum being 4 points to sell a luxury-quality item. Each 
point also adds 2 to the Availability of the item that can 
be sold on the premises. The character may pick up said 
item at a ten percent discount and reduce the interval on 
the Extended Test to locate the item by 1 category (days 
to hours, and hours to “it’s on the shelf over there”).
MERCHANDISE:  
PAWN SHOP/THRIFT STORE
Point Cost: 2
Type: Service
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 10,000¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Commercial
Any used legal goods can be fenced at this loca-
tion. Items can be sold within a week provided that the 
player sells the item at fifteen percent of the normal 
purchase price. 
MERCHANDISE:  
USED GOODS (SPECIFIC ITEM)
Point Cost: 2
Type: Service
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 10,000¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Commercial
This location can be used to fence one specific item, 
which must be selected when this option is purchased. 
When attempting to fence an item, reduce the threshold 
to find a buyer by half. Instead of negotiating a price, 
you can immediately sell items at twenty-five percent of 
the purchase price.
PANIC ROOM
Point Cost: 2
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 1,000¥
Minimum Lifestyle: High
This location has a reinforced room that goes be-
yond average material standards. It has a three-meter by 
three-meter room constructed with structural material 
(p. 197, SR5) with a Rating 5 locking mechanism.
>> RUN FASTER <<
222    A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN >>


===== RF p225 =====
PATRON OF THE ARTS
Point Cost: *
Type: Outing
Monthly Nuyen Cost: *
Minimum Lifestyle: *
Surprising as it seems, you can walk through the 
front door of some exclusive places, avoiding the line 
while other suckers have to stand there and buy tickets. 
Your membership privileges don’t allow you to bring 
in weapons, but you receive preferred member treat-
ment for perks like front-row seats, or “members only” 
specials, or and limited suite or luxury box access. This 
entertainment option covers places such as the zoo, 
Dante’s Inferno, sports events, museum memberships, 
and more. The whole expense of the outing, including 
food and drink, is covered by the lifestyle. One specif-
ic entertainment venue is chosen each time this perk is 
purchased. The cost and nature of this perk varies based 
on the lifestyle to which it is attached. Virtual Disney-
land and more upscale theme parks cost more month-
ly, as do private club memberships, and they tend to be 
bought by people with higher lifestyles. This choice can 
be purchased more than once for different locations, 
artists, sports teams, or what-have-you.
PRIVATE ROOM
Point Cost: 1
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 20¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Squatter
This is a simple empty, two-meter-by-two-meter space 
that has been built out of the view of passers by. It provides 
concealability (–4 dice pool penalty for Perception Tests 
to notice a person in the room from the outside) and full 
cover. A barricaded alley or abandoned cars are examples 
things that could serve as a private room for people who 
do not live in an actual building. For people in a building, 
this is simply a room cleverly placed to be difficult to see.
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
Point Cost: 1
Type: Service
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 50¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Low
You have a monthly pass to access public transporta-
tion in your region. This can involve taking a bus, trolley, 
subway, ferry, or any combination of them. This means 
from most places within the city you have transportation 
access to your destination, with the caveat that it’s not 
as fast as you may like it. This is purchased once per city, 
provided it has public transportation (good luck finding 
that in Chicago or barrens regions of other cities, such as 
Redmond in Seattle or Lambeth in London).
RAILWAY PASS
Point Cost: 1
Type: Service
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 75¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Medium
You have a monthly pass to use the light rail or mag-
lev train to travel between two relatively close sprawls. 
This includes border-crossing fees when relevant (such 
as when traveling between the various sectors of Den-
ver). This is purchased for two city locations, provided 
there is a railway connecting them. Examples of possible 
paired cities include Seattle and San Francisco, San Fran-
cisco and Los Angles, Cheyenne and Butte, and St. Louis 
and Chicago (the O’Hare sub-sprawl, specifically). 
SHOOTING RANGE
Point Cost: 2
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 500¥
Minimum Lifestyle: High
There’s a place you can go where you can shoot guns 
and not bother the neighbors. Reduce training time with 
a firearm skill by ten percent.
SOY PROCESSING UNIT
Point Cost: 1
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 20¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Medium
You have a SOTA set of kitchen devices. Soy, krill, and 
mycoprotein are architecturally “printed” into something 
that looks and tastes like close to the real thing. Reduce 
the potential environmental damage tied to Comforts & 
Necessities due to food allergies by 1.
>> RUN FASTER <<
PATRON TABLE
TYPE
POINTS
MONTHLY 
COST
MINIMUM 
LIFESTYLE
Rock concerts /
sport events
1
100
Medium
Private club 
memberships 
(Dante’s, 77)
1
200¥
High
Public 
entertainment 
(zoo, museum)
1
75¥
Low
Theme parks 
(Virtual 
Disneyland)
1
100¥
Medium
<< A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN    223


===== RF p226 =====
SPORTS COURT  
(SMALL) [SPORT]
Point Cost: 2
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 300¥
Minimum Lifestyle: High
This gives the domicile a tennis court, basketball 
court, driving range, bowling alley, or something like 
that. The character has a physical place to play at home, 
saving the need to go out. This reduces training time 
with an athletics skill by ten percent.
SWIMMING POOL
Point Cost: 1
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 100¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Medium
You have every child’s dream—a swimming pool in 
your home. It may not be a huge pool, but it’s bigger 
than a bathtub, clean, and deep enough to use for relax-
ation and exercise.
WALK-IN FREEZER
Point Cost: 1
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 1,000¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Commercial
While this chilled room is mainly used for food stor-
age, it can also store things that need to stay cold while 
six-foot holes are dug as more permanent resting places.
WORKSHOP/FACILITY
Point Cost: 2
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 2,500¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Medium; must include Commercial
This is space dedicated to the character’s gear-relat-
ed work. Power, ventilation, shelving, etc. are there to 
perform any tasks related to working with an appropri-
ate build and repair skill. Combined with a Shop or Facil-
ity, gear/weapons associated with the workshop can be 
repaired at 1 box of damage per week without addition-
al cost (2 boxes with a Facility).
YARD
Point Cost: 2
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 50¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Low
You have a piece of outdoor ground that you can 
consider your own. The lot is roughly fifty to two hun-
dred square meters of empty space, depending on the 
lifestyle. This could be a backyard to a home, an empty 
lot, or abandoned parking lot. It’s large enough to park a 
car, or put up a small kiddy pool, or install a ritual circle. 
This asset can be purchased more than once to increase 
the size of the yard.
ZEN DEN/BAT CAVE
Point Cost: 2
Type: Asset
Monthly Nuyen Cost: 100¥
Minimum Lifestyle: Medium
Everyone has to have a place to show off their cool 
stuff, a place where they are surrounded by things that 
are fun and comfortable. The zen den is a room dedicat-
ed to the hobbies of the character. It could be a physical 
collection of vintage bottles, a trideo set linked to mega-
pulses worth of trid movies, an immersive sports-view-
ing room, or what-have-you. The zen den provides a 
+1 dice pool bonus on tests involving relevant Interest 
Knowledge Skills when the character is at home. The 
bat cave is similar, though geared more toward legwork. 
Tools, agent-driven computer simulations, and/or in-
spirational music provide a helpful atmosphere for the 
character in solving puzzles. With the purchase of a Kit 
related to a selected Academic Skill, the bat cave pro-
vides a +1 dice pool bonus to tests involving relevant 
Academic Knowledge Skills made while the character is 
at home. Separate Kits can be purchased for each Aca-
demic Skill, and the bat cave can hold up to three Kits.
LIFESTYLE OPTIONS
Lifestyle options generally cover the lifestyle as a 
whole. Positive lifestyle options can increase the limit 
of a category, while negative options give the player 1 
point that can be spent on improving the lifestyle in any 
category up to the limit.
ANGRY DRUNK  
REPUTATION (NEGATIVE)
You have a bad reputation for causing or being in fights. 
This has caused many bars to put your picture in their 
system or ban you completely. The character cannot 
have any Bar Patron or Patron of the Arts (Private Club) 
entertainment options attached to any lifestyle, This 
option may cause issues for the character when meet-
ing Mr. Johnson. Once the character gets away from the 
neighborhood where they live, though, they leave the 
bad reputation behind. Add 1 point to the base lifestyle 
associated with this quality.
CORPORATE OWNED 
(POSITIVE)
This domicile is within the jurisdiction of a corporation, 
such as a wageslave housing complex or arcology. In-
crease both the Comforts & Necessities value and lim-
it of the location by 1. The Security level and limit are 
>> RUN FASTER <<
224    A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN >>


===== RF p227 =====
also increased by 1 from the base lifestyle. Reduce the 
available points of the lifestyle by 3. If the base lifestyle 
doesn’t have 3 points to start with, then it can’t be cor-
porate owned. To use this quality, characters must have 
a corporate or limited corporate SIN (p. 84, SR5).
CRAMPED  
(NEGATIVE, P. 370, SR5)
Applies to a single asset (Garage or Workshop). Can 
be purchased once for each asset, reducing its month-
ly cost by ten percent. Any tests performed in the 
cramped space have their Limit reduced by 2.
EXTRA SECURE  
(POSITIVE, P. 370, SR5)
There are no additional changes to this quality from the 
core rulebook. It covers all assets purchased for a life-
style without additional cost.
>> RUN FASTER <<
<< A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN    225


===== RF p228 =====
HOTEL CALIFORNIA 
(NEGATIVE)
There’s a limited window when someone can enter or 
leave the premises. The rest of the time, the character 
is stuck and can only use the resources the place has. 
The time period of lockdown should be agreed upon 
between the gamemaster and player and should not be 
too long lest the character become MIA while the rest 
of the team continue missions. Add 1 point to the base 
lifestyle.
MAID IS OUT (NEGATIVE)
This location has not been cleaned recently. Or ever. 
Layers of trash and mold cover most surfaces. Reduce 
the limit of Comforts &Necessities by 1. The Cleaning 
Service option cannot be purchased for this location. 
Increase the DV of environmental fatigue by 1 for en-
vironmental allergies. Add 1 point to the base lifestyle.
NOT A HOME (NEGATIVE)
This location was not designed for habitation. There’s 
no plumbing and possibly no privacy, lacking standard 
features such as interior walls. This can be as simple as 
a cargo container or rented space at a strip mall. Re-
duce the limit of Comforts &Necessities by 1. Add 1 
point to the base lifestyle.
OBSCURE/DIFFICULT TO FIND 
(NEGATIVE, P. 370, SR5)
Cannot have a Discreet Deliveryman or Candyman en-
tertainment options attached to this lifestyle. Add 1 
point to the base lifestyle.
ONE GOOD THING ABOUT  
THIS PLACE (POSITIVE)
No matter where the character ends up, he always has 
one entertainment choice guaranteed while he’s there. 
With the selection of this option, the player chooses one 
entertainment asset worth either one or two points. This 
choice is always available at the domicile as long as the 
monthly cost is paid. This quality can only be tied to the 
Traveler lifestyle.
SAFEHOUSE (POSITIVE)
This premise is designated as a safehouse. As such, the 
character has no control over what Entertainment op-
tions are factored into the place, meaning they cannot 
purchase Entertainment assets for a safehouse, though 
other assets can be added. Subtract 4 from the dice pool 
of anyone trying to track the subject while they reside in 
a safehouse. The character can freely use the place, but 
the owner/director has rules that guests must obey while 
there. The gamemaster decides the house rules (curfew, 
weapons allowed, clothing restrictions, etc.). This option 
adds 500 nuyen a month to the cost of a lifestyle.
SAFETY THIRD (NEGATIVE)
While there is space for a workshop or facility on the 
premises, it’s not the best of places to work in. In fact, 
there’s always a risk to your health (for example, no 
ventilation, wet floor, critters). Reduce the number of 
1s needed for a glitch by one (so that if the character 
would normally need four 1s to glitch, he now only 
needs three). Characters must have purchased a Shop 
or Facility along with the Garage or Workshop Asset. 
Applies to a single asset (Garage or Workshop). This 
quality can be taken more than once per asset. Add 1 
point to the base lifestyle.
SPECIAL WORK AREA 
(POSITIVE, P. 370, SR5)
Applies to a single asset (Garage or Workshop). Can 
be purchased more than once per lifestyle. The 1,000 
nuyen per month additional cost applies each time this 
is purchased, as does the +2 bonus to the Limit for rel-
evant skill tests performed in the area.
THRIFTY (NEGATIVE)
So what if the shower is lukewarm and the walls are 
paper thin? You got a great deal on this place. Reduce 
the points available by 2 and the monthly cost by 1,000 
nuyen. Only available for the traveler lifestyle.
W ZONE (NEGATIVE)
W Zone is sort of like a Z zone, but the W stands for 
wilderness. This location is way outside any urban area, 
so the grid is spotty, power is not publicly provided, 
and unless you have a car, you’re walkin’, as the near-
est public transportation is two hours away. Reduce the 
Neighborhood level by 1 and increase the security re-
sponse by 1d6 hours. Add 1 point to the base lifestyle.
MAINTAINING A 
LIFESTYLE
If a complete lifestyle, with all its additions, cannot be 
maintained, add-ons can be dropped, meaning that the 
character does not have to make the monthly payment 
for them. Assets have to be paid for in advance—if you 
don’t pay for it at the beginning of the month, you don’t 
get to use it for any part of that month.
If you drop an asset you had used points to purchase, 
the points are not returned. You can, however, resume 
payments in a future month and gain that option back. 
If you want to switch assets, simply buy a new lifestyle 
with the needed assets. 
>> RUN FASTER <<
226    A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN >>


===== RF p229 =====
SAMPLE LOCATIONS
THE CUBE, TOKYO  
(COFFIN HOTEL)
Sure, the only space you can really call your own is a 
tube only slightly longer and wider than you are, but it’s 
padded, warm, and dry, and you can lock it against in-
truders. Plus, food and bathroom facilities are available 
nearby. It’s not luxurious, but it has the basic amenities 
you need to live, and sometimes they’re even clean.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 2
•	
Security: 2
•	
Neighborhood: 2
•	
Entertainment: 0
•	
Cost: 70¥ a night
THE MILLENNIUM, LOS 
ANGELES (STANDARD HOTEL)
For those times when you absolutely need to spend 
more in a night than many people pay for rent in a 
month, the Millennium is there for you. The mattress is 
pillow-topped, the furniture is real wood, and the staff 
is capable of acting like they are genuinely happy to 
see you. Everything you could possibly want is a phone 
call away. The worst part of your stay will be having to 
go back to reality at the end of it.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 5
•	
Security: 5
•	
Neighborhood: 6
•	
Entertainment: 3
•	
Entertainment Assets: Gym, Indoor Arboretum, 
Swimming Pool
•	
Cost: 430¥ a night
RED LIGHT  
DISTRICT SAFEHOUSE 
This isn’t the showiest brothel in the red-light district—
that would only draw attention. This is an out-of-the-
way shack, where a weary madam holds court in a dingy 
front room. A dim hallway leads to three rooms where 
the working girls ply their trade. The secret, though, is the 
broom closet at the end of the hall—there’s a trap door in 
the ceiling and a rope ladder that drops down, providing 
access to a small attic space above the brothel. A small 
group of people can rest there, away from the prying eyes 
of civilization—and most of the accompanying amenities.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 3
•	
Security: 2
•	
Neighborhood: 3
•	
Entertainment: 0
•	
Entertainment Assets: Armory
•	
Options: Obscure/Difficult to Find, Safehouse
•	
Cost: 3,100 ¥ a month
ROBYN’S
Books—the actual, for-real, hold-in-your-hand things—
fill this shop. The soft thud of cloth covers closing, the 
crinkle of paper, the odor of aged pages interleaved with 
dust make this shop a delight for the senses. And you 
can even buy books if you want. It’s a great business to 
use as a cover, since you meet a range of knowledge-
able (though often eccentric) people. Just don’t’ get so 
caught up in it that you forget you’re a shadowrunner.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 3
•	
Security: 5
•	
Neighborhood: 4
•	
Entertainment: 2
•	
Entertainment Assets: Merchandise: Goods 
(hard-copy books)
•	
Cost: 9,600¥ a Month
STUFFER SHACK 
You can’t live at these ubiquitous convenience stores, but 
some people give it their best shot. Full of sugary snacks, 
soy-based burgers, and of course loads of soykaf, Stuffer 
Shacks have food, public restrooms, and a staff that keeps 
them relatively clean, there often doesn’t seem to be a 
compelling reason to leave. Just remember to buy some-
thing before the employee behind the counter gets edgy. 
Or you can take over management of the whole shop, 
and the glamorous life of a convenience store operator 
can be yours for as long as you can make the payments. 
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 3
•	
Security: 3
•	
Neighborhood: 4
•	
Entertainment: 3
•	
Entertainment Assets: Merchandise: Goods 
(Food, 1 point), Soy Processing Unit, Walk-in 
Freezer
•	
Cost: 8,000¥ a Month
TYPICAL MIDDLE CLASS 
SUBURBAN HOME
White picket fence. Two-car-garage. All the electronic 
conveniences of modern life. This was many people’s 
definition of the American Dream in the twentieth cen-
tury, and though the United States has fragmented, the 
dream remains for many people. And it is attainable, as 
long as you sell yourself, body and soul, to a megacorp. 
If you are a shadowrunner, of course, you just have to as-
sume that guise for as long as you can afford it. Or until 
you need a change.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 3
•	
Security: 3
•	
Neighborhood: 4
•	
Entertainment: 4
•	
Entertainment Assets: Grid Subscription, Patron 
of the Arts (Seattle Art Museum), Public Trans-
portation, Zen Den
•	
Cost: 5,000 ¥ a month
>> RUN FASTER <<
<< A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN    227


===== RF p230 =====
One of the most daunting tasks for a new player is to 
face the admittedly large array of equipment options 
that exist in Shadowrun. There are guns for every oc-
casion, no less than four different knives, lifestyles, 
vehicles, fake SINs … it can all be overwhelming. Even 
seasoned players find themselves groaning over a 
calculator, trying to squeeze every last available nuy-
en. In an effort to make this process easier, we have 
pre-assembled character kits (PACKs) that allow you to 
quickly and easily make new characters by offering a 
collection of gear with pre-calculated nuyen and Kar-
ma costs. The collections presented here meet specific 
themes, as listed in the title, to help you quickly and 
easily build your vision for a character. The nuyen and 
Karma costs are listed with the title; in all cases the nuy-
en is evenly divisible by 2,000, so each PACK can be 
wholly purchased with the specified amount of Karma 
at character creation if desired. PACKs frequently note 
Availability for ease of reference.
EQUIPMENT PACKS
Gathering up equipment is vital for every shadowrun-
ner. People have their special gear needs—a street sa-
murai needs some augmentations, a weapon expert 
needs a good selection of guns, and a decker needs 
a cyberdeck—but there are also selections of gear that 
can be useful to just about anyone. Below is a mix of 
kits—some that are specialized, some that might be 
useful to anyone.
CORE PACKS
Core PACKs include the most essential gear for every 
shadowrunner, starting with a fake SIN and commlink, 
then making certain that you have armor, light in the 
darkness, and a certified credstick to offer you some 
flexibility in how you pay for stuff. Other PACKs might 
be a little esoteric, but they’re still not specialized. Ev-
eryone can use a core PACK.
INTRO RUNNER PACK
(4,000¥/2 KARMA)
Suitable for rookie runners and people who’ve turned 
their backs on society at large, the Intro Runner PACK 
revolves around a barely functional fake SIN, one that 
is fine for ordering pizza or getting into a cheap dive 
but will crumble under any real scrutiny. A simple “Wel-
come to Seattle” package of software and respirator 
will get you where you need to be, if not in style. Fine 
for street scum and rat shamans, though professionals 
tend to go more upscale.
BASIC RUNNER PACK 
(10,000¥/5 KARMA)
Considered the benchmark for a professional shad-
owrunner, the Basic Runner PACK revolves around a 
much better fake SIN, a more impressive commlink, 
and enough elements to operate with both a shad-
owrunning team and day-to-day society. In addition 
to the Seattle tourist bundle, now with audio cues and 
a soft-speaking tour guide at every AR feed, it comes 
with a secure radio for team communication and an 
emergency first-aid kit, all the better to keep the group 
in one piece.
INTRO RUNNER PACK
ITEMS
Fake SIN (1)
Mapsoft (campaign city)
Meta Link commlink
Standard credstick
Colt America L36 light 
pistol with two spare clips
Twenty plastic restraints
100 rounds of standard 
light pistol ammo
Flashlight
Knife
Backpack (20¥)
Armor vest
Respirator (1)
Glasses (1) with image link
RUN FASTER
PACK YOUR KIT
228    PACK YOUR KIT >>


===== RF p231 =====
ADVANCED RUNNER PACK
(20,000¥) (12F)
A step beyond the basic shadowrunner, the veteran 
picks the Advanced Runner PACK for its sturdy fake SIN 
and powerful commlink, topped with advanced opti-
cal and audio gear, an eraser for those ever-pesky wifi 
tags, and a wide array of situational gear for unusual sit-
uations. Scaling a building, swimming up a sewer line, 
even withstanding a chemical attack, it’s all in a day’s 
work for a veteran. An oft-overlooked component of 
the seasoned vet is a simple handheld video camera. 
Preliminary recon of a target is made easier when 
you can review the footage after the fact, but getting 
people’s words and deeds on video gives rise to any 
number of extortion opportunities or trade. Never un-
derestimate the power of watching the watchmen. Or 
watching those who watch the watchmen. And so on.
WEAPON AND 
AMMO PACKS
The trids love the subtle shadowrunner who talks his 
way out of problems, the cat burglar who steals from 
the rich without raising a fuss, and the mage whose 
finger-flicks can drop the biggest troll with a burst of 
sleepy sparkles. The unfortunate reality is that most 
shadowrunners rely on violence to get the job done, 
and a good set of weapons helps quite a bit. While not 
every shadowrunner will drip firepower from every 
centimeter of their body, this category is what sepa-
rates the weapon specialists and street samurai from 
the face and smuggler. And we should note that the 
trids have also shown themselves to be fond of clatter-
ing gunfire and loud explosions.
CLASSIC SAMURAI PACK
(2,000¥/1 KARMA) (9R)
For the traditionalist in all of us comes the Classic Sa-
murai PACK. Far and away the single most distinctive 
BASIC RUNNER PACK
ITEMS
Fake SIN (3)
Earbuds (1) with sound link
Renraku Sensei commlink
Metal restraints
Knife
Ten plastic restraints
Armor vest
Backpack (20¥)
Micro-transceiver
Flashlight
Mapsoft (campaign city)
Respirator (1)
Silver credstick
Survival kit
Glasses (1) with image link
Medkit (1)
ADVANCED RUNNER PACK
ITEMS
Fake SIN (4)
Metal restraints
Erika Elite commlink with 
sim module and subvocal 
mic
Backpack (20¥)
Knife
Flashlight
Armor vest
Flashlight (low-light)
Micro-transceiver
Climbing gear
Tag eraser
Diving gear
Mapsoft (campaign city)
Gas mask
Gold credstick
Respirator (4)
Contacts (3) with image 
link, low-light vision, and 
flare compensation
Survival kit
Earbuds (3) with sound 
link (25¥) and select sound 
filter (2)
50 meters of rope
Camera (1) with vision 
magnification
Medkit (3)
<< PACK YOUR KIT    229
