

===== runfaster.pdf p160 =====
PIE IESU DOMINE.  
DONA EIS REQUIEM.
BONUS: 2 KARMA
The character is a flagellant, believing in causing him-
self pain to serve a greater good. Perhaps they seek 
clarity through pain; perhaps it is a constant act of 
contrition for their deeds. Whatever the reason, the 
character gains High Pain Tolerance 1 but always starts 
the day with 1 box of Physical damage. This box can 
be healed, but the character will seek to cause himself 
another box of damage as soon as possible. Note that 
the character’s wounds may cause questions in certain 
social settings, should anyone notice.
POOR SELF CONTROL
BONUS: 4 TO 12 KARMA
Whether they’re a boaster, an adrenaline junkie, or just 
can’t stand disorder, characters with this quality span 
a variety of mental ticks that all boil down to the in-
ability to control one’s actions. The Karma costs vary 
based on the threshold of the Composure test involved 
in restraining the character’s actions. The quality can be 
taken multiple times, but only once for each form of 
control issue. 
Braggart (5 Karma): No one has ever done it big-
ger or better than her. The character will always try to 
top anyone else’s claims of success, even to the point 
of lying about it. This may result in them being ignored, 
considered infantile, or challenged to prove their superi-
ority, but without a Composure (3) Test they won’t back 
down from the brag. 
Thrill-Seeker (4 Karma): It’s all about the rush. The 
character will always take the most dangerous and risky 
option in any situation if they don’t succeed at a Com-
posure (2) Test. There is a slight payoff, as the adrenaline 
rush provides a +1 to their Initiative Score for 5 Combat 
Turns (meaning that is how long the bonus lasts, not that 
the character gets an additional bonus each turn).
Compulsive (4 To 12 Karma): There is an order to all 
things that must be maintained, and the character feels 
the need to exert their sense of order on everything. The 
value of this mental malady comes from how severe the 
compulsion is and how much of a negative impact it 
can have on the character. Maybe she likes a tidy house, 
maybe she sees a necessary order to the items on the 
tables out in the world, or maybe she feels the need to 
practice her skills (be they hacking, casting, shooting, 
talking, stealing, sneaking, etc.) every chance she gets. 
The character must make a Composure (2) test to resist 
the compulsion. The base Karma value is (2 x threshold 
needed for Composure Test; must be from 1 to 4); then 
add 2 for things in the character’s personal environment 
(e.g., placement of furniture and minor appliances), 3 
for a single aspect of the public environment (e.g., cor-
recting bad apostrophes on signs, counting every Ford 
Americar they see), or 4 for a broad aspect of the public 
environment (e.g., touching every light post they walk 
by, hacking into every camera they see).
Vindictive (5 Karma): Though best served cold, the 
thought of vengeance sure makes your blood boil. No 
matter how small the slight, it cannot go unreturned, and 
the escalation factor must always be considered. An in-
sult may be returned with a calm threat, a threat might 
get the same or may require a payment in pain, and any 
injurious assault must be brought back upon your en-
emies two-fold (or more). To resist the urge for instant 
payback, the character must make a successful Compo-
sure (2) Test, and even when resisted, the character must 
add the offender’s name to their hit list for the future. 
Combat Monster (10 Karma): The red rage blinds to 
all but victory. A character with this quality loses much 
of her self-control once a fight has begun. She’ll fight un-
til all her opponents are disabled, even if outnumbered 
and losing, unless she can make a Composure (3) Test to 
clear her head enough to break off the fight. 
RECORDS ON FILE
BONUS: 1 KARMA PER RATING  
(MAX RATING 10)
For every point of Karma spent on this quality, one of 
the Big 10 megacorps possesses a relatively up-to-
date record of the character’s SIN, biometrics, person-
PHOBIA TABLE
CONDITION
KARMA
DESCRIPTION
Uncommon
2
The triggering condition is 
relatively rare, such as the 
smell of roses or specific 
insects.
Common
5
The triggering condition is 
commonly encountered, such 
as sunlight, trolls, insects in 
general, magic, the outdoors, 
or crowds.
SEVERITY
KARMA
EFFECTS
Mild
3
–1 dice pool modifier to all 
actions
Moderate
5
–3 dice pool modifier to all 
actions; Composure (2) Test or 
must get away from the source
Severe
10
–6 dice pool modifier; 
Composure (5) Test or must flee 
from the source for (5 – hits) 
Combat Turns
>> RUN FASTER <<
158    AS YOU AS YOU CAN BE >>


===== runfaster.pdf p161 =====
al, and medical data. The gamemaster and player can 
work together to figure out why they have this data or 
the player can leave that mystery up to the gamemas-
ter. The data provides the megacorp’s agents a +2 dice 
pool modifier for any tests made to identify the charac-
ter through their records. Due to the proliferation and 
saturation of facial recognition and identification sys-
tems used by the megacorporations to track consumer 
habits, representatives of the selected megacorps also 
have a +2 dice pool modifier on tests to track down or 
locate the character whenever they are in an area with 
a C or better security rating. No character can have Re-
cords on File and Erased at the same time.
REDUCED (SENSE)
BONUS: 2 TO 29 KARMA
One of the character’s five (or six for certain Awakened 
folks) senses is about as sharp as a butter knife. Any 
Test involving the chosen sense faces a –2 dice pool 
modifier. This quality can be taken multiple times, re-
ducing a different sense each time, and its effects are 
cumulative for tests involving more than one sense, 
such as general Perception Tests. A character with a re-
duced sense of smell or taste gains 2 Karma, while a 
reduced sense of hearing, sight, or astral sight is worth 
5 Karma, and a reduced sense of touch is worth 10 
Karma because it affects most Physical skill rolls due to 
lack of tactile sensitivity. 
If the sense is ever repaired or corrected permanent-
ly, the quality must be bought off. If the character does 
not have enough Karma to buy off the quality, the in-
tended repair cannot be made. No character can have 
Reduced (sight) and Blind at the same time, or Reduced 
(hearing) and Deaf at the same time.
SENSORY OVERLOAD 
SYNDROME
BONUS: 15 KARMA
Sensory Overload Syndrome (SOS) is a growing epi-
demic in the world of ever-present AROs and excessive 
wireless sensory input. The condition is an offshoot 
of AIPS, and victims suffer similar epileptic episodes. 
Whenever a character with SOS enters an area of high 
ARO saturation (gamemaster discretion) or attempts to 
make use of sensory enhancement systems, they must 
make a Willpower + Edge (4) Test or enter into an epi-
leptic seizure for (5 – hits) minutes. 
The condition can possibly be prevented by deacti-
vating enhancement systems, the character’s commlink, 
or running the commlink in hidden mode, but these last 
two options create issues in areas where identification is 
required or suspicious when not broadcast. 
SIGNATURE
BONUS: 10 KARMA
The origami swan can mean only one thing. For some 
reason, a character with this quality feels it is necessary 
to leave their calling card to announce their involve-
ment in a job. The signature is usually some specific 
item, symbol, or technique the character uses that 
identifies their participation. For those who know the 
character and their signature, the signature is easily 
identified. Anyone performing a test to identify the 
character’s handiwork or track the character is given a 
dice pool modifier equal to the character’s Street Cred 
and Public Awareness combined.  
VENDETTA
BONUS: 7 KARMA
This is some Hatfield and McCoy-level drek. The char-
acter is entangled in a blood feud with an individual 
or group, and no matter the initial cause, the vendet-
ta is now as much an issue of honor and reputation as 
revenge. The quality means the character has extreme 
difficulty resisting a confrontation with her foe. 
Whenever the character encounters the target of her 
ire, she must make a Composure (3) Test or else have no 
choice but to incite a violent confrontation. If the charac-
ter should ever neutralize their nemesis, they have two 
options. They can buy off the quality, or someone new 
will pick up the vendetta, giving the character gets a new 
nemesis. 
WANTED
BONUS: 10 KARMA
It feels so good to be wanted, or maybe not. Though 
most runners are probably wanted for questioning in a 
few cases, this is something different. When the char-
acter takes this quality, they work out why they have a 
bounty or contract on their head. The bounty should 
be worth at least 25,000 nuyen, enough to tempt even 
one’s own “friends.” The character should have to fre-
quently deal with someone coming for them or finding 
out about the bounty and using it against them. 
If for some reason the bounty ever goes away, like 
the character is turned in or they clear their name, the 
quality must be bought off with Karma. 
>> RUN FASTER <<
<< AS YOU AS YOU CAN BE    159


===== runfaster.pdf p162 =====
>> RUN FASTER <<
After years of training, years of operating on the compa-
ny’s behalf, and years of absolute loyalty, for some reason 
the burned company man was blacklisted. He barely had 
enough time to retrieve his emergency go-bag; all of his 
accounts were frozen, right when he had the heat on his six. 
Good thing he kept one account off the books for just such 
an emergency. Now all he has is a go bag and some spare 
cred, just enough to secure some drekhole to use as a new 
base of operations. It’s okay, though. He’s been in worse 
fixes before. For years the company sent him to all corners 
of the world to “facilitate” various operations. He can fight, 
but he’s not a frontline kind of guy. His skillsets are more 
geared toward planning, working the angles, and analyz-
ing the big picture. The company made a big mistake when 
they burned him, because he’ll never forgive what they did 
to him. And he certainly won’t forget.
BURNED 
COMPANY MAN
160    AS YOU AS YOU CAN BE >>
METATYPE: DWARF
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
4
4
4 (6)
4
4
3
5
5
5.4
2
Condition 
Monitor (P/S)
10/10
Armor
9
Limits
Physical 6, Mental 5, Social 7
Physical 
Initiative
9 (11) + 1D6
Active Skills
Athletics skill group 3, Close Combat skill group 3, Computer 3, Con 5, 
Etiquette 4, Firearms skill group 4, First Aid 2, Instruction 4, Intimidation 
5, Leadership 6, Navigation 2, Negotiation 4, Palming 3, Perception 4, 
Pilot Ground Craft 1, Pilot Watercraft 1, Sneaking 4, Survival 2, Thrown 
Weapons 3
Knowledge 
Skills
Poetry 2, Psychology 3, Small Unit Tactics 2
Languages
Aztlaner Spanish N, English 4, French 2, German 1, Japanese 2
Qualities
Bad Rep, Blandness, Driven, Guts, Insomnia 1, Photographic Memory
Augmentations
Reaction enhancers 2
Gear
Antidote patch (2), certified credstick (gold), concealable holster, cram 
(2 doses), Erika Elite commlink, fake SIN (Rating 4), fake license (Rating 
3, light pistol, SMG), fitted suits, glasses [Capacity 3 w/ image link, 
smartlink, vision magnification], jazz (2 doses), lined coat [Rating 3 w/ 
Chemical Protection 1, Fire Resistance 1, Nonconductivity 1], long haul 
(3 doses), Low lifestyle (2 months), medkit [Rating 4], stim patch (2), tag 
eraser, tranq patch (2)
Weapons
Colt America L36 [Light Pistol, Acc 7(9), DV 7P, AP—, SA, RC —, 11 (c), 
w/ silencer, smartgun system (external), 3 spare clips, 110 rounds of 
regular ammo]
Colt TZ-120 [SMG, Acc 4(6), DV 7P, AP—, SA/BF/FA, RC 2(3), 32 (c), w/ 
silencer, smartgun system (external), 3x spare clips, 200 rounds of 
regular ammo]
Defiance EX Shocker [Taser, Acc 4, DV 9S(e), AP –5, SS, RC —, 4 (m), w/ 
40 darts]
Extendable baton [Club, Acc 5, Reach 1, DV (STR+2)P, AP –]
Knife [Blade, Acc 5, Reach -, DV (STR+1)P, AP –1]
Throwing knives (2) [Throwing Weapon, Acc Physical, Reach 1, DV 
(STR+1)P, AP –1]
Walther Palm Pistol [Hold-Out, Acc 4, DV 7P, AP—, SS/BF, RC—, 2 (b), w/ 
10 rounds of regular ammo]
Contacts
Assassin (Connection 3, Loyalty 2), Disavowed Spy (Connection 3, 
Loyalty 3), Fixer (Connection 3, Loyalty 3)
Starting ¥
4,225 + (3D6 + 60)


===== runfaster.pdf p163 =====
>> RUN FASTER <<
Sometimes called angels of the battlefield, the combat 
medic is a welcome addition to any team. A hardened vet-
eran of war, he’s seen more than his share of death and de-
struction. Tough both mentally and physically, he’s usually 
the one to run through hellish incoming fire to save the life 
of a buddy or teammate. A warrior concerned more with 
preserving life than taking it, he also brings to any battle a 
wide variety of life-saving options that include potent heal-
ing magic and good old-fashioned hands-on first aid. But 
don’t think for a moment that the medic can’t defend him-
self and his patents. Many have learned that the hard way. It 
takes a special kind of brave (or crazy) to do what he does, 
because the medic is someone who cares more for the life 
of others than for his own. For a combat medic, no one is 
ever left behind.
COMBAT
MEDIC
METATYPE: HUMAN (MYSTIC ADEPT, SHAMAN)
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
M
4
4
4
4
5
3
3
5
6
2
5
Condition 
Monitor (P/S)
10/11
Armor
14
Limits
Physical 6, Mental 5, Social 7
Physical 
Initiative
7 + 1D6
Skills
Automatics 3, Computer 1, Counterspelling 5, First Aid 6, Gymnastics 
3, Navigation 2, Perception 4, Pistols 4, Running 2, Medicine 3, 
Spellcasting 5, Survival 2, Swimming 1, Unarmed Combat 3 
Knowledge 
Skills
Mass Casualty Incidents 2, Mercenary Hangouts 3, Triage 3
Languages
Arabic 1, Aztlaner Spanish 2, English N, German 2
Qualities
Code of Honor (Leave No One Behind), Guts, Poor Self Control (Thrill 
Seeker), Quick Healer, SINner (national), Toughness  
Adept 
Powers
Combat Sense 2, Danger Sense 2, Empathic Healing, Mystic Armor 2, 
Pain Relief, Pain Resistance 1, Spell Resistance 1 
Spells
Antidote, Detect Life, Heal, Increase Reflexes, Levitate, Stabilize, 
Stunbolt
Gear
3 antidote patches, Ares PED Mark III (w/ oxygen tank), armor jacket 
[12], binoculars (optical), biomonitor, counterspelling focus 1(combat 
spells), 3 disposable syringes, flashlight, gas mask, 2 medkits [Rating 
3], 6 medkit supplies, monocle [Rating 4, w/ flare compensation, image 
link, low-light vision, smartlink], Middle lifestyle (3 months), Narcojet (3 
doses), spell formula (manaball, manabolt), spellcasting focus [Rating 
2, health spells], subvocal microphone, 3 tranq patches, Transys 
Avalon commlink, 4 trauma patches
Weapons
HK-227 [Assault Rifle, Acc 4(6), DV 7P, AP—, SA/BF/FA, RC 1, 28 (c), w/ 
100 rounds regular ammo, 4 spare clips]
Salavette Guardian [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5 (7), DV 8P, AP –1, SA/BF, RC 1, 
12 (c), w/ 60 rounds regular ammo, 4 spare clips]
Survival Knife [Blades, Acc 5, Reach—, DV(STR+2)P, AP 1]
Contacts
Fixer (Connection 2, Loyalty 2), Street Doc (Connection 2, Loyalty 3)
Starting ¥
5,070 + (4D6 + 100)
<< AS YOU AS YOU CAN BE    161


===== runfaster.pdf p164 =====
>> RUN FASTER <<
So what if it’s a stereotype that big, massive, hulking trolls 
make good bodyguards. It works, so why mess with it? But 
just because someone has the body, the skills, and the ’ware 
for the work doesn’t mean everything always goes well. 
Sometimes, the job goes sideways and the principle gets 
geeked. Maybe she didn’t notice something or was just a 
half a second too slow, or maybe someone else screwed up 
but she took the heat for it. Now instead of working lucrative 
corp-executive or celebrity protection details, she’s forced 
to use her skills in the shadows. But the skills she honed in 
protecting a principle have more than one use—what had 
been used for defense can also be used to attack. Her role 
may have changed, but she’s still committed to never fail 
her “principle”—whatever that might be. 
DISGRACED
BODYGUARD
162    AS YOU AS YOU CAN BE >>
METATYPE: TROLL
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
9
5
5 (7)
8
3
3
3
3
2.45
1
Condition 
Monitor (P/S)
13/10
Armor
17
Limits
Physical 10(11), Mental 4, Social 4
Physical 
Initiative
10 + 1D6
Skills
Blades 3, Clubs 3, Gymnastics 3, Intimidation 3, Perception 4, 
Pistols 5(6), Unarmed Combat 5(6)
Knowledge 
Skills
Corporate Culture 3, Entertainment Gossip 3, Psychology 3, Threat 
Assessment 3
Languages
English N, Japanese 1, Spanish 1
Qualities
Code of Honor (Protect the Principle), Dependents (elderly parent), 
Disgraced, Guts, SINner (National), Toughness 
Augmentations Bone density augmentation 3, cyberears [Rating 1 w/ audio 
enhancement 1, select sound filter 1, spatial recognizer], datajack, 
flare compensation, internal air tank 1, orthoskin 3, reaction 
enhancer 2, reflex recorder [pistols, unarmed combat], shock 
hand, smartlink
Gear
2 antidote patches, 2 concealable quick-draw holsters, Executive 
Suite armor [12], forearm guards [+1], license (professional 
bodyguard), Low lifestyle (two months), jammer (area, Rating 3), 
spare ammo (100 rounds regular, heavy pistol), 2 stim patches, 
subvocal microphone, 2 trauma patches
Weapons
Savalette Guardian [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5 (7), DV 8P, AP –5, SA/BF, RC 
1, 12 (c), w/ 60 rounds APDS ammo, 4 spare clips]
Savalette Guardian [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5 (7), DV 8S*/6S(e)**, 
AP–2**/–5***, SA/BF, RC 1, 12 (c), w/ 30 gel rounds, 30 rounds 
Stick-n-Shock ammo, 4 spare clips]
* gel round stats
** Shock hand [Reach 1, Acc Physical, DV 9S(e), AP –5]
Telescoping staff [Club, Acc 4, Reach 2, DV (STR+2)P, AP—]
Contacts
Corporate Administrative Assistant (Connection 3, Loyalty 2); Fixer 
(Connection 2, Loyalty 2)
Starting ¥
3,580 + (3D6 x 60)


===== runfaster.pdf p165 =====
>> RUN FASTER <<
Part do-gooder and part glory-hound, the investigative reporter 
is bound and determined to do whatever it takes, go anywhere 
to get a story. And while her newly acquired technomancer 
abilities freaked her out at first, she came to realize they’re 
definitely an advantage. Hey, those data sprites are great for 
research and data sifting while she concentrates on hitting the 
shadows to get the full story. But she’s not stupid. Without help, 
she knows she would become just another story in the obits. 
Sometimes (often) she turns to runners for backup. And some-
times they turn to her—they may need help investigating some 
slime-ball, be it in person or in the Resonance, or they may need 
to learn about the power players in a particular neighborhood 
or corporation. Plus, she can serve as a little extra muscle when 
needed. She’s decent in a fight, but her true talent is talking to 
and pumping people for info. The truth is out there, but some-
times it just needs the proper leverage to go public.
INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTER
<< AS YOU AS YOU CAN BE    163
METATYPE: HUMAN
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
RES
2
3
3
2
3
4
4
4
6
2
5
Condition Monitor (P/S)
9/10
Armor
12
Limits
Physical 3, Mental 5, Social 5
Physical Initiative
6 + 1D6
Matrix Initiative
6 + 4D6
Skills
Compiling 5, Computer 5, Con 5, Cracking skill group 
5, Decompiling 2, Gymnastics 3, Influence skill group 
5, Intimidation 5 (Interrogation +2), Perception 5, Pilot 
Ground Craft 2, Pistols 4, Registering 4, Sneaking 3, 
Software 5, Tracking 3 (Urban +2), Unarmed Combat 3
Knowledge Skills
Investigative Reporting 4, Journalism 3, Local Politics 2
Languages
English N, Japanese 3
Qualities
Allergy (uncommon, mild, grass), Analytical Mind, Code 
of Honor (Seek the Truth), Home Ground (You Know a 
Guy, home city), Natural Hardening, SINner (national)
Living Persona
Attack 3, Data Processing 3, Device Rating 5, Firewall 
3, Sleaze 3
Complex Forms
Puppeteer, Resonance Spike, Resonance Veil
Gear
Area jammer (Rating 5), armor jacket [12], Actioneer 
Business Clothes [8], binoculars (Capacity 3 w/ image 
link, vision enhancement 2, vision magnification 
electric), bug scanner (Rating 5), camera (Capacity 6 w/ 
audio enhancement 2, image link, vision enhancement 
2, vision magnification electronic), 2 certified credsticks 
(silver), 2 certified credsticks (standard), 2 concealable 
holsters, contacts (Rating 3, w/ flare compensation, 
image link, low-light vision), 10 datachips, DocWagon 
contract (basic), directional microphone (Capacity 2, 
w/ audio enhancement 1, select sound filter 1), earbuds 
(Rating 1), 5 sheets electronic paper, laser microphone 
(Capacity 2, w/ audio enhancement 1, select sound 
filter 1), maglock passkey (Rating 5), micro-camera, 
micro omni-directional microphone, Middle lifestyle (3 
months), omni-directional microphone (Capacity 2 w/ 
audio enhancement 1, select sound filter 1)
Weapons
Browning Ultra-Power [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5 (6), DV 
8P, AP –1, SA, RC —, 10 (c), w/ 100 rounds regular 
ammo, 3 spare clips]
Cavalier Safeguard [Taser, Acc 5(6), DV 6S(e), AP –5, 
SA, 6 (m) w/ laser sight, 60 taser darts]
Shock hand [Taser, Reach —, DV 9S(e), AP –5]
Contacts
Blogger (Connection 1, Loyalty 2); Fixer (Connection 
2, Loyalty 2); Screamsheet Editor (Connection 3, 
Loyalty 3)
Starting ¥
5,255 + (4D6 x 100)


===== runfaster.pdf p166 =====
>> RUN FASTER <<
Even in an era where ever-advancing technology competes with 
ancient forces over which is more powerful, there’s still a need 
for someone who can put a bullet through someone’s cranium 
from 1,500 meters away. Combining the best in modern firearms 
technology, Awakened abilities, and raw skill, the marksman ad-
ept is a specialist who lives by the motto “One shot, one kill, no 
exceptions.” For him, big explosions and putting lead downrange 
fast isn’t as important as putting the shot dead on target, usually 
through the cranium. While many consider him a cold-blooded 
killer or assassin, he’s actually an honorable professional with a 
select set of skills who prefers precision to brute strength and col-
lateral damage. Whether it’s as a designated marksman moving 
with a team providing long-range precise fire support or in the 
classic sniper role of providing overwatch and taking out key tar-
gets ahead of the main force, the marksman adept is a welcome 
addition to any team and a serious threat to his enemies. 
MARKSMAN ADEPT
164    AS YOU AS YOU CAN BE >>
METATYPE: HUMAN
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
M
3
6
5(6)
3
4
4
3
3
6
3
6
Condition Monitor (P/S)
10/10
Armor
9
Limits
Physical 5(6), Mental 5, Social 6
Physical Initiative
8(9) + 2D6
Active Skills
Armorer 3, Automatics 4(5), Close Combat skill group 
2, Etiquette 2, Gymnastics 3, Longarms 5(6), Perception 
5, Pistols 4(5), Running 3, Sneaking 4(5), Survival 3, 
Tracking 3
Knowledge Skills
Ballistics 3, Firearm History 1, Meditation 2, Mercenary 
Units 2, Small Unit Tactics 4
Language Skills
Aztlaner Spanish 3, English N
Qualities
Astral Chameleon, Catlike, Code of Honor (Warrior’s 
Code), Emotional Attachment (Crockett EBR)
Adept Powers
Danger Sense 1, Enhanced Accuracy (Automatics), 
Enhanced Accuracy (Longarms), Enhanced Accuracy 
(Pistols), Improved Ability (Automatics) 1, Improved 
Ability (Longarms) 1, Improved Ability (Pistols) 1, 
Improved Potential (Physical), Improved Reflexes 1, 
Motion Sense, Stillness 2
Gear
Binoculars, catalyst stick, chameleon suit [9], climbing 
gear, concealable holster, DocWagon contract (basic), 
Erika Elite commlink, fake SIN (Rating 3), flashlight 
(low-light), ghillie suit (forest/jungle), ghillie suit (urban), 
goggles [Capacity 2 w/ low-light vision, smartlink], 
grapple gun, license (Awakened individual, professional 
mercenary) Middle lifestyle (1 month), periscope, 
rappelling gloves, stealth rope (100m), subvocal 
microphone, survival kit, tool kit (Armorer)
Weapons
AK-97 [Assault Rifle, Acc 5(7), DV 10P, AP –2, SA/BF/
FA, RC 2, 38 (c), w/ foregrip, sling, 150 rounds regular 
ammo, smartgun system (external), 3 spare clips]
Cavalier Arms Crockett EBR [Sniper Rifle, Acc 6 (8), DV 
12P, AP –5, SA/BF, RC 3, 20 (c), w/ 80 rounds APDS 
ammo, bipod, imaging scope, 100 rounds regular 
ammo, shock pad, smartgun system (external), 3 
spare clips, 20 stealth tag tracker ammo]
Colt Government 2066 [Heavy Pistol, Acc 6(9), DV 7P, 
AP –1, SA, RC —, 14 (c), w/ laser sight, 150 rounds 
regular ammo, silencer/suppressor, 3 spare clips]
Franchi Spas-24 [Shotgun, Acc 4(6), DV 12P, AP –1, 
SA/BF, RC 1, 15 (c), w/ 50 flechette rounds, 30 gel 
rounds, shock pad, smartgun system (internal), 100 
rounds regular ammo (slug) ]
Survival knife [Blade, Acc 5, DV (STR+2)P, Reach —, 
AP –1]
Contacts
Fixer (Connection 2, Loyalty 2); Mercenary NCO 
(Connection 2, Loyalty 3)
Starting ¥
3,885 + (4D6 X 100)


===== runfaster.pdf p167 =====
>> RUN FASTER <<
Some people have a fever, and the only prescription is … shadow-
running. Artists sometimes find their muses in the most unlikely 
of places. In the case of the rocker, he found his inspiration in 
the shadows. Unable to decide between the world of music and 
shadowrunning, the rocker lives a dangerous dual life and draws 
inspiration from his experiences in the high-stakes, live-or-die 
world of the shadows. He composes everything from mournful 
ballads dedicated to fallen teammates to hyper-charged pow-
er-anthems about rebellion, anarchy, and true freedom. Whether 
it’s riffing on his prized guitar at a concert or laying down sup-
pression fire with his assault rifle, the rocker is all about living in 
the moment, since tomorrow, we may all die. Some in the biz 
see the rocker as excess baggage at best or a liability at worse, 
but in a fight he can more than hold his own. And his force of will 
and rock-star charisma and bad-boy charms are potent weapons 
in their own right. But no matter what the situation is, the rocker 
will be in the forefront putting it all on the line because one never 
really knows where the next bit of inspiration will come from. 
ROCKER
<< AS YOU AS YOU CAN BE    165
METATYPE: HUMAN
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
4
4
4(6)
3
3
3
5
6
3.9
5
Condition Monitor (P/S)
10(11)/10
Armor
12
Limits
Physical 5(6), Mental 5, Social 7
Physical Initiative
9 (11) + 1D6
Active Skills
Artisan 4 (Songwriter +2), Automatics 3, Blades 
2, Con 3, Etiquette 3, Leadership 2, Negotiation 4, 
Perception 4, Performance 6, Pistols 5, Stealth 
skill group 5, Unarmed Combat 3
Knowledge Skills
Dive Bars 3, Groupies 1, Music 4, Music Venues 2
Languages
English N, French 2, German 2, Japanese 2, 
Spanish 2
Qualities
Addiction (Mild, shadowrunning), Distinctive Style 
(Rock and Roll!!!), Indomitable (Social) 1, Too 
Pretty to Hit, SINner (National)
Augmentations
Cyberarm (obvious) [w/ shock hand, Agility 
4, Strength 4], cyberears [Rating 3, w/ audio 
enhancement 1, dampener, select sound filter, 
sound link, spatial recognizer], datajack, reaction 
enhancer 2
Gear
Armor jacket [12], 2 certified credsticks (silver), 2 
concealable holsters, DocWagon contract (Gold, 
1 year), ear buds [Capacity 1, w/ select sound filter 
1], Fender-Hall Pegasus electric guitar, glasses 
[Capacity 3. w/ flare compensation, low-light 
vision], Hermes Ikon commlink, Low lifestyle (3 
months), sub-vocal microphone, tool kit (Disguise)
Weapons
Browning Ultra-Power [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5 (6), 
DV 8P, AP –1, SA, RC —, 10 (c), w/ laser sight, 
40 rounds regular ammo, 3 spare clips]
Cavalier Safeguard [Taser, Acc 5(6), DV 6S(e), AP 
–5, SA, 6 (m) w/ laser sight, 12 taser darts]
FN HAR [Assault Rifle, Acc 5(6), DV 10P, SA/BF/FA, 
RC 2, 35 (c) w/ laser sight, 200 rounds regular 
ammo, sling, 3 spare clips]
Combat knife [Blade, Acc 6, Reach —, DV (STR 
+2)P, AP 3)]
Shock hand [Taser, Reach —, DV 9S(e), AP –5]
Contacts
Retired Street Samurai (Connection 3, Loyalty 
4); Club Owner (Connection 4, Loyalty 3); Fixer 
(Connection 3, Loyalty 4); Street Performer 
(Connection 2, Loyalty 3); Studio Musician 
(Connection 2, Loyalty 3)
Starting ¥
6,360 + (3D6 + 60)


===== runfaster.pdf p168 =====
>> RUN FASTER <<
She got her start on the amateur racing circuit, showing off her 
skills with a bike, maneuvering in ways no one else could. Peo-
ple started betting on her, so she started betting on herself, and 
a fun hobby turned into a source of income. She moved her way 
up to the semi-professional circuit, loving the adrenaline rush 
but wishing for something more, something that would put her 
even more on the edge. She found it in the shadows. Shadow-
runners place high value on someone who can get out of a tight 
spot, and that’s the street racer’s specialty. She will outrace any-
thing, anytime, anywhere. She’s foolish enough to believe she 
might be able to outrace a bullet, and skilled enough to maybe 
have a chance at pulling it off.
STREET RACER
166    AS YOU AS YOU CAN BE >>
METATYPE: ELF
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
3
3
4(6)
3
3
4(6)
3
3
1.5
4
Condition 
Monitor (P/S)
10/10
Armor
16
Limits
Physical 5, Mental 6, Social 4
Physical 
Initiative
7(9) + 1D6
Matrix Initiative 
(AR/Cold sim)
8 + 3D6/8 + 4D6
Skills
Automatics 4, Automotive Mechanic 5, Electronic Warfare 4, 
Electronics Group 5, Gunnery 5(6), Navigation 3, Perception 4, Pilot 
Ground Craft 6, Pistols 5, Sneaking 3
Knowledge 
Skills
Drift Racing 2, Go Gangs 3, Police Procedures 3, Underground Racing 
Circuits 3
Languages
English N, Japanese 3
Qualities
Addiction (Moderate, caffeine), Dependents 1 (sibling), Distinctive Style 
(speed-freak), Gearhead, Juryrigger, Prejudiced (Specific, outspoken, Law 
Enforcement)
Augmentations
Cerebral booster (Rating 2), control rig (Rating 2), cybereyes [Rating 2, 
w/ flare compensation, image link, low-light vision, smartlink], datajack, 
dermal plating (Rating 2), reaction enhancers (Rating 2), reflex recorder 
(Gunnery), rigger command console (CompuForce TaskMaster)
Gear
Ares PED Mark III (w/ oxygen tank), bike racing armor [12] (w/ fire 
resistance 2), bike racing armor helmet [+2], certified credstick (gold), 
concealable holster, DocWagon contract (basic), facility (automotive 
mechanic), fake licenses [Rating 5, driving], fake SIN [Rating 5], Hermes 
Ikon commlink (DR 5) Middle lifestyle (4 months), medkit (Rating 4, 
w/ 2 supply refills) miniwelder, 3 stim patches, subvocal microphone, 
sunglasses [Capacity 2, w/ vision enhancement 2] tag eraser, toolkit 
(automotive mechanic), 3 trauma patches
Vehicles
Ford Americar [Handling 4/3, Speed 3, Accel 2, Body 11, Armor 6, Pilot 1, 
Sensor 2, Passenger 4, rigger interface, weapon mount (Uzi IV)]; Colt 
TZ-120 [SMG, Acc 4(6), DV 7P, AP-, SA/BF, RC 2, 40 (c), w/ smartgun 
system (external), 300 rounds regular ammo]
GMC Bulldog Step-Van [Handling 3/3, Speed 3, Accel 1, Body 16, Armor 
12, Pilot 1, Sensor 2, Passenger 6, rigger interface, 2 weapon mount 
(Ingram Valiant)]; Ingram Valiant [LMG, Acc 5(7), DV 9P, AP-2, BF/FA, 
RC 2(3), 100 (belt), w/ smartgun system (external), 300 rounds regular 
ammo]
Suzuki Mirage [Handling 5/3, Speed 6, Accel 3, Body 5, Armor 6, Pilot 1, 
Sensor 2, Passenger 1, rigger interface, weapon mount (Uzi IV)]; Uzi 
IV [SMG, Acc 4(6), DV 7P, AP-, BF, RC 1, 24 (c), w/ smartgun system 
(external), 300 rounds regular ammo]
Yamaha Growler [Handling 4/5, Speed 3/4, Accel 1, Body 5, Armor 5, Pilot 
1, Sensor 1, Passenger 1]
Weapons
Ares Predator V [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5 (7), DV 8P, AP –1, SA, RC —, 15 (c), 
w/ 150 rounds regular ammo]
Ingram Smartgun X [SMG, Acc 4(6), DV 8P, AP —, BF/FA, RC 2, 32 (c), w/ 
150 rounds regular ammo]
Contacts
Fixer (Connection 2, Loyalty 2); Go Ganger (Connection 2, Loyalty 3)
Starting ¥
4,360 + (4D6 x 100)


===== runfaster.pdf p169 =====
>> RUN FASTER <<
It takes a special kind of con artist to infiltrate the Sixth World’s 
most dangerous gangs, criminal organizations, and shadows. 
But the undercover cop is up to it (or so she hopes). The mo-
ment they go under, the undercover cop’s past is gone. Their 
cover becomes their life. With their handler being their only 
connection to their real identity, the cop must walk a fine line 
between obeying and breaking the law in an effort to bring 
criminals to justice, all while keeping their cover intact. Many 
undercover cops don’t live past their first few months, and 
very few live to see retirement. Everyone who goes under is 
changed. Some give in to the corruption they see, while others 
become jaded and self-destructive. But a rare few learn to use 
both law and the shadows to bring a little justice to the world … 
even if they get their hands a bit dirty in the process. 
UNDERCOVER COP
<< AS YOU AS YOU CAN BE    167
METATYPE: ORK
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
5
4
4
4
4
3
4
5
5.25
1
Condition Monitor 
(P/S)
11/10
Armor
12
Limits
Physical 6, Mental 5, Social 7
Physical Initiative 8 + 1D6
Active Skills
Close Combat skill group 5, Con 6, Escape Artist 3, Etiquette 3 (Street +2), 
Gymnastics 3, Intimidation 4, Longarms 3, Negotiation 4, Perception 4, 
Pilot Ground Craft 2, Pistols 5, Running 2, Stealth skill group 5, Tracking 5 
(Urban +2)
Knowledge Skills
Black Markets 2, Criminal Operations 2, Gangs 3, Law Enforcement 2, 
Organized Crime 3
Language Skills
Chinese 2, English N, Italian N, Japanese 3, Russian 2
Qualities
Allergy (Uncommon, Mild, dogs), Bilingual, Home Ground (Street Politics), 
SINner (Corporate Limited), Tough as Nails
Augmentations
Cyberears [Rating 2 w/ audio enhancement 1, select sound filter 1, 
soundlink], cyberhand [Rating 2, Agility 4, Strength 4, w/ hand razors], 
datajack, image link
Gear
Armor jacket [12], certified credstick (silver), 3 concealable holsters, fake 
SIN [Rating 3], Low lifestyle (1 month), 10 plastic restraints, 10 sensor tags, 
10 stealth tags, Renraku Sensei commlink
Weapons
Colt America L36 [Light Pistol, Acc 7(8), DV 7P, AP —, SA, RC —, 11 (c), w/ 
55 gel rounds, laser sight (external), 3 spare clips]
Defiance EX Shocker [Taser, Acc 4, DV 9S(e), AP –5, SS, RC 3, 4 (m), w/ 20 
spare darts]
Remington 990 [Shotgun, Acc 4(5), DV 11P, AP –1, SA, RC —, 8(c), w/ 40 
flechette rounds, 40 gel rounds, laser sight, 40 rounds regular ammo 
(slug)]
Ruger Super Warhawk [Heavy Pistol, Acc 5(9), DV 9P, AP –2, SS, RC —, 6 
(cy), w/ laser sight, 60 rounds, 3 speed loaders]
Hand razors [Blade, Acc 6, Reach —, DV (Str+1)P, AP –3]
Knife [Blade, Acc 5, Reach —, DV (STR+1)P, AP –1]
Contacts
Bartender (Connection 2, Loyalty 2): Black Market Dealer (Connection 3, 
Loyalty 3): BTL Dealer (Connection 2, Loyalty 2): Fixer (Connection 2, Loyalty 
1): Handler (Connection 3, Loyalty 2): Mafia Capo (Connection 2, Loyalty 3): 
Street Hustler/Face (Connection 4, Loyalty 3)
Starting ¥
4,547 + (3D6 X 60)


===== runfaster.pdf p170 =====
Netcat reclined into her luxuriously wonderful WCG 
Bèibù ànmó massage chair, which had been designed 
specifically for people with long-term pain due to the 
various ways life had to hurt a person. Included with the 
chair was an aftermarket Senpaitek Kangofu medkit with 
vitals monitoring and a self-changing IV abilities, the best 
friend a decker or technomancer could have when delv-
ing deep into the Matrix and beyond for days at a time. 
The biggest drawback was the catheter, but it there really 
was no way around using it if you wanted to get things 
done properly. Today, though, was not a deep dive type 
of day, and so the catheter was not needed. She mentally 
called up a data sprite that she had registered to monitor 
news feeds, blogs, forums, and even a few shadow sites 
for information that would be of interest to her, and or-
ganize it all for her in terms of priority. It was a cute little 
thing, shaped like a little stick of ancient RAM with an an-
alog reel-to-reel tape-drive face, and it chirped happily 
as it transferred its report.
The smallest file was flagged for immediate attention, 
so Netcat gave it a quick once over. Then she slowed 
down and looked again, her eyes widening, her mouth 
dropping. She twisted in her chair, which reformed com-
pletely around her body and went back to massaging the 
exhaustion and tension out of her back and shoulders. 
The file was simple text, no voice feed included, and it 
carried codes in the title that were only found in fan-fic-
tion. She was appalled, but that didn’t keep her from 
reading it a third time so she could confirm that she was 
really reading what she thought she was.
Netcat held the toaster to her naked bosom, his perky elven brown 
nipples stiffening against the hard, cold plasteel of the case. She 
cooed lightly to it, like one would do when cuddling a lover that 
meant much, much more than some random one-night stand 
in a heartless world. It was the sound you make to a soulmate.
“This is wrong.” The toaster transmitted to her, “You are a 
metahuman, while I am just a lowly appliance, built to roast 
DOMESTICALLY 
DISTURBED
168    DOMESTICALLY DISTURBED


===== runfaster.pdf p171 =====
bread with heating coils. I lack even a heart to properly return 
the love you have for me.”
Netcat lowered her head, kissing the crossbar that sepa-
rated the slots for the slices of bread, “If this is wrong, then 
I wish never to be right again.” The curvy and naked elf 
declared to God and anyone else that was listening in on a 
proclamation of true love, and lowered her kiss so that her 
tongue …
Rage filled the Netcat’s mind. The worse a joke is, the 
longer it lives, she thought. The term of casual disparage-
ment for technomancers had never made much sense, 
yet here was some idiot bringing it to literal, hideous 
life. She was suddenly angry at a lot of people, but only 
one of them was near enough to be on the receiving 
end of her wrath. She stalked around the home, seeth-
ing as she thought about the methods of revenge for 
his many, many flaws and thoughtless actions. Her mind 
filled with images of castration, dismemberment, slow 
starvation, removal of cybernetics with crude tools, de-
struction of his online reputation, and, finally, before 
she left the police to have what was left, forcing him to 
watch as she burned down his ever-so-holy Safeco Field 
baseball stadium...
“Fred!” Netcat screamed, her tone deeply soaked in 
venom. Her sprite dashed away in fright, while her cat 
stopped sharpening his claws on one of the pieces of 
electronic detritus that cluttered the home, specifically 
an old Fuchi Gateway 4217-G system that was the only 
access the home had to the Matrix. Heavily updated 
over the years, it housed Netcat’s sprites, some very 
nasty interface countermeasures, a few pieces of fake 
data for clever skript kiddies to think they got some real 
paydata, and a piece of old rug on the case for Ogmios, 
the Bastet E-Cat.
“Can’t talk, sugarfingers. Baseball,” Slamm-0! re-
plied from the living room, lying back on the couch with 
his son in his lap. Both of them were intently watching 
the trid of the live Mariners game. The Sony Prismtron 
wasn’t the best model on the market, and certainly 
not the most expensive, but its standard multi-display 
DOMESTICALLY DISTURBED    169
BY RAYMOND CROTEAU


===== runfaster.pdf p210 =====
er gangs. Further, within these large bodies, there is a 
lot of variation in culture. There’s almost always a “pro-
gressive” splinter and a more “conservative” faction, 
so it always pays off to know which group Mr. John-
son belongs to. Syndicate Johnsons are typically a little 
less anonymous than corporate ones, so getting your 
Johnson’s rap sheet and knowing how he treated past 
shadowrunners is going to be easier. Be sure to take 
advantage of that.
MAFIA
The Cosa Nostra is a very wide and diverse group, more 
than most other syndicates. What started out as an Ital-
ian thing is really now a Jewish, Irish, Polish, Black, and 
so on thing. The common thread is respect. You must 
always show respect to Mafia Johnsons. It’s part of their 
rules. Any disrespect must be punished.
Mafioso Johnsons typically don’t have too much of 
a problem with working with shadowrunners. They are 
another bunch that are pleasant to meet, as good al-
cohol is usually offered. Mafia Johnsons like to meet in 
places they control, often restaurants, bars, or gambling 
clubs, though this can extend to less-friendly places 
like the docks or alleys in their territory. Don’t read too 
much into the choice of places. If they want you dead, 
they’re equally likely do it in any of these locations. Short 
of that, the mob typically pays what it promises, so not 
getting paid is rarely a concern. They’ll either pay you 
fully or kill you.
YAKUZA
Yakuza Johnsons are the ones who have the most trou-
ble working with runners. They don’t like dishonorable 
scum like you, and unless you’re an all-Japanese-hu-
man-male team, they’re frequently going to have is-
sues with at least some of you. They don’t like women, 
they don’t like gaijin, and they certainly don’t like meta-
humans.
Despite all that, it hardly means you won’t be doing 
jobs for the Yaks. The Yakuza are some of the world’s fin-
est hypocrites. They’ll break all the rules they insist make 
them so superior, and to do so they’ll use the worst 
scum they can find: you. 
Yakuza Johnsons are unpleasant. They don’t like be-
ing near you. They are the kind of guys who will invite 
you to meet somewhere nice, but you won’t be sam-
pling any of the delights; they will be for Mr. Johnson, 
helping him compensate for the nastiness he has to suf-
fer through. They will get to business quickly and plain-
ly. They’ll assume you are idiots so will keep it simple. 
Don’t ask too many questions, that just prolongs how 
long he has to suffer your presence, so he’ll cut it short 
and tell you to do your homework. Unpleasant people, 
I told you.
That being said, the Yakuza have their claws in a lot 
of corporations, through extortion and blackmail. They 
leverage those contacts to get a lot of inside info, so runs 
often have a little help from the inside. The Yaks pay well 
enough, but they like to pay in kind, especially in vices, 
though you can sometimes get cyberware, hacking gear, 
weapons, that sort of stuff. 
TRIADS
Working for the Triads is typically pretty straightfor-
ward. They don’t have an opinion about shadowrun-
ners one way or another. Johnsons are typically older 
gentlemen and ladies, so don’t expect too much ex-
citement in your meets. They are, however, infuriating-
ly superstitious and talk in metaphors way too much. 
The Triads will often be pairing you with some of their 
own muscle as backup or diversion, as needed.
Don’t expect to become a regular of your Triad John-
son. You are not one of them and never will be. You 
don’t understand. They’ll use you purely as mercenaries, 
and you’ll never be one of their favorites or whatever. It’s 
a cold life working for the Triads.
Also, a word of caution. If you need to cross them 
for some reason, payback will come using magic. You’d 
better find a nice, warded place and plan to stay there 
for the rest of your life.
VORY
The Vory v Zakone are a tough bunch. They’ll take a beat-
ing and keep on ticking. Vory rely on shadowrunners 
more than the other criminal outfits. They are probably 
alone in not feeling superior to you. You’re not Vory, no, 
you’re still an outsider, but so long as you deliver on what 
you are tasked, then you are just swell in their opinion. 
Make no mistake, Vory Johnsons are the epitome of 
violent men. You don’t need to treat them special, but 
you do need to be effective, to deliver, and never ever 
cost them money. The Vory only know one way to solve 
problems: kill everyone you know, knew, or might pos-
sibly get to know in spectacularly bloody fashion as they 
work their way to you. They are cold, cold people whose 
smiles never quite thaw the ice in their eyes.
Vory Johnsons are very pragmatic. Whatever works, 
whatever you need to do, is fine by them if it doesn’t 
screw up their work. Whatever they can do to assist, 
they’ll do, for a certain charge. Good people to work for, 
so long as you aren’t looking to make friends (if you are, 
you’re in the wrong business anyway).
EXTREMISTS
Extremists … now we’re getting to the fun part. Extremists 
are terrorist groups—very much including eco-terrorist—
as well as insurgents, freedom fighters, rebels, but also 
secret societies, political organizations, magical groups. 
All of those kinds of people. Anyone who believes in 
something. Anyone who values, above all else, some-
thing other than nuyen. God, these people make me sick.
>> RUN FASTER <<
208    BOSSES & BETRAYERS >>


===== runfaster.pdf p211 =====
Extremist organization Mr. Johnsons are almost always 
the bosses who call the shots. This is because most of 
these group work in cell structures where the less mem-
bers know, the better. So, really, nobody but the top guy of 
a local “cell” or whatever they call themselves (sometimes 
it’s “chapter” or “parish”) knows anything at all about the 
big picture going on, so really nobody would know you 
need to be hired. That means that in order to talk to anyone 
who can do anything, you have to talk to the boss.
Extremists do fund quite a lot of shadow work. The 
reason is often very straightforward: they need your 
skillset. Extremists often have a lot of members very 
much willing to break the law and/or hurt unbelievers, 
but what good qualities these people bring to the ta-
ble in terms of enthusiasm, they cancel out by lacking in 
skill. If we’re talking about armed groups—terrorist and 
the like—then the jobs are often pretty straightforward 
with little political aspect to it. These guys need you as 
mercenaries to supplement their forces and reach where 
they can’t, plain and simple. 
However, it is the very opposite with nominally un-
armed groups such as secret societies and policlubs. 
Because they often want to present themselves as 
peace-loving, perfectly rational and law-abiding people, 
they need to secretly hire you to do the real dirty work 
that is the entire point of their existence. The classic ex-
ample is Humanis, an organization that goes to great 
length to present itself as “not anti-metahuman but 
pro-human,” hiring you to go and burn down an orphan-
age for ork children.
While these two halves have different reasons for 
hiring you, they unfortunately have a similar tendency 
to think it’s a great idea to kill you when you’re done. 
These guys are amazing at rationalizing murder away 
and for the most part have little concept of long-term 
consequences and reputation in the shadows. As 
soon as they don’t need you, there is a strong tenden-
cy for them to eradicate you. Most likely, you are an 
unbeliever to their cause anyway, so you’re just anoth-
er unclean they need to burn in their crusade sooner 
or later anyway, right? Now is as good a time as any 
to kill you.
>> RUN FASTER <<
<< BOSSES & BETRAYERS    209


===== runfaster.pdf p212 =====
So, above all other Johnson types, be real careful 
about what work you accept from these crazies. The 
covenant that binds us all together—reputation—doesn’t 
matter to these people. They will promise you moun-
tains of gold when all they have is ten UCAS Dollars in 
their pocket. They will lie to you about everything—any-
thing to get you to do the job. And then when you’re 
done, simple math comes up. Do they need you again? 
If yes, then you’re okay. If not, then it’s really a question 
of how many casualties they will take taking you out. 
Note that I’m not saying “if” they will take casualties, but 
“how many.” Throwing away the lives of trusting believ-
ers is what these guys do best. Losing a dozen to kill four 
or five runners isn’t a big deal—assuming their supply of 
loyal underlings is holding up adequately.
Given that they care nothing about honoring agree-
ments and care only if they have a future need for you, 
how do you make sure you get paid? Obviously, make 
yourself indispensable. Show your potential for The 
Cause. You can easily do this by going beyond the pa-
rameters of the mission. Hired to burn down an orphan-
age for orks? Then burn it down and then burn down the 
nearby school mostly attended by orks. And, of course, 
make sure there are plenty of orks in those buildings 
when you burn them down. Then get video footage of 
orks begging for their lives as you watch them burn and 
give it to your Johnson when you come for the handoff. 
He’ll like that. If you work for extremists, then you need 
to be all in. If you show that you’re one of them, then 
they will trust you. Trusted mercenaries are hard to come 
by, so you’ve just made yourself useful. And by show-
ing the same insane bias these people have, whatever it 
may be, then you’re showing that your loyalties lie with 
the group. So if you get arrested, you won’t talk. That’s 
good. They like that.
But, whatever you do, do not be an obstacle. Do not 
suddenly grow a conscience and decide you don’t want 
to complete the job. Do not act disgusted at their hidden 
hatred. If you meet them, you’re on their radar now. Ex-
tremist group are paranoid—very paranoid. Mostly they 
have reason to be so, as governmental and corporate 
spy agencies and law-enforcement agencies like to keep 
tabs on them. If they’ll smoke you for simply not being 
all in, imagine what they’ll do to you if they think you’re 
actively against them. You just went from having an em-
ployer to having an enemy hunting you down.
All in all, if you ask me, you have to be pretty des-
perate to work for extremist groups. But I understand 
sometimes you just have to pay the bills. If you play your 
cards right, though, there is no reason you can’t prosper. 
Whether you can sleep at night after what these guys 
ask you to do is another matter.
>	
Not all causes are morally bankrupt. Sometimes working 
with those with a cause just means understanding you need 
to push harder because there is more than nuyen at stake.
>	
Marcos
>	
Chummer, there ain’t ever nothing more than nuyen at 
stake.
>	
Matt Wrath
EXTREMIST ORGANIZATIONS
HUMANIS
Working for Humanis isn’t as bad as you might think. 
They aren’t going to get you to line up and execute a 
bunch of metas. That’s not their style. You’ll probably be 
doing datasteals, surveillance, planting evidence, that 
sort of thing. Humanis is about convincing people meta-
humans are bad, not slowly executing the lot of them 
one by one. While I’m sure they wouldn’t mind that hap-
pening, the upper echelons try to be subtle.
Speaking of the leaders, your Humanis Johnson isn’t 
going to be some toothless hick. It’ll probably be some 
rich guy’s assistant. He will think very highly of himself, 
but even more highly of his boss, the guy funding your 
run. They have no qualms hiring metahumans, by the 
way. They can’t resist the smug satisfaction of being 
proven right that metahumans are criminals and scum. 
Plus, if you get caught, it’ll just show everyone else that 
metahumans are nasty little thugs and thieves.
Humanis are pretty middle-ground employers. Pay is 
decent, but no real perks beyond that, and an average 
chance to get betrayed. Humanis Johnsons tend to be 
lazy, and they like hiring the same teams over and over 
so long as nothing goes dramatically bad. 
ILLUMINATES OF THE NEW DAWN
Well, this is going to be a shocker, but your IoND Mr. 
Johnson is going to be a smug fascist hermetic mage. 
Sorry to have to break it to you. He is going to be a little 
hoarder of secrets and act very self-important. If you can 
deal with that, you can probably do business. The IoND 
is not just looking for mage runners. They have plenty of 
mages. What they often need is some good old street 
muscle and techies like riggers and hackers.
I may deride them a little, but I won’t deny Illuminate 
Johnsons are smart bastards. They will have a very good 
plan to get you to your objective. However, this plan will 
most likely rely too much on magic and human manip-
ulation: the two things they understand really well. It’ll 
be a little light on making use of hacking and good old 
violence, because they don’t know how to use these 
tools effectively. I suggest you evaluate the plan and 
inject what you know. You’ll probably offend your John-
son, but he’ll eventually come around. Deep down, they 
know you are better at doing this than they are.
>> RUN FASTER <<
210    BOSSES & BETRAYERS >>


===== runfaster.pdf p213 =====
The Illuminates have a reputation for being rich. Don’t 
believe it. They don’t pay that well. However, if you need 
secrets, they have that in spades. Blackmail dirt, who is 
doing what to whom, what various people are planning, 
all kinds of info a shadowrunner might find useful. Also, 
any hermetics on your team will be grateful to be paid in 
the kind of arcane items they have lying around, but they 
will never give out the really good stuff.
NEO-ANARCHISTS
The little brats of the world have a natural affinity for 
shadowrunners, and vice-versa. You two get along like 
soykaf and Styrofoam cups. The Neo-As never have a 
shortage of need for qualified shadowrunners, because 
their own people are typically idealist dreamers who 
can’t actually get anything done. The equation is very 
simple when working with Neo-As. You have next to 
no chance of getting betrayed, but you also will get the 
poorest pay you’ve ever laid eyes on. But they at least 
have pretty much every contact people of your kind 
might need. Street docs, hacker software and hardware 
supplies, weapons, safehouses … everything. 
AMATEURS
The final category is a broad one—the amateurs. Am-
ateurs are people who do not normally operate in the 
shadows at all. These are people who really don’t know 
shadowrunners and don’t have a clue about the rules 
of the game they just stepped in. Some examples of 
amateurs are the scientist who personally hires you to 
sabotage a rival’s project, the rich mage guy who wants 
you to retrieve a rare artifact, or the parents who hire 
you to find their daughter who disappeared in the Bar-
rens (invariably, she ends up being an insect shaman, 
but that’s another story).
Amateurs aren’t dangerous per se. They lack the 
means to kill you for whatever reason. The mad scientist 
might try to kill you once you acquire that thingamajig, 
but it’ll typically be a silly, over-elaborate plan that you 
just sidestep pretty easily. I mean, these people haven’t 
ever killed anyone before. They don’t know how it’s re-
ally done. They don’t know actual shadowrunners, just 
what they saw on the trid or the secondhand stories they 
overheard. 
The tradeoff to the safety of dealing with amateurs, 
and possibly the good karma you get for helping some-
one who really desperately needs your help, is that the 
pay is shit. A few personally rich assholes aside, few am-
ateurs have the thousands of nuyen it takes to properly 
compensate runners for their time. You’ll typically get 
some cash and then maybe something really precious to 
the person, like a family heirloom or something. I know 
two types of runners who take amateur jobs—the ones 
who end up refusing most of the payment, and the ones 
who milk Mr. Johnson dry. 
You’re either the type that is going to see those poor 
parents cry their eyes out when you tell them you had 
to put down their insect shaman daughter for the good 
of humanity and then feel really bad, thinking they’ve 
been through enough, and accept a few hundred bucks 
(if anything) and leave it at that. Or you’re the type 
that’s going to do the job as an excuse to come back 
and extort everything these people have simply be-
cause you can. I mean, your beefy muscled cyberarm 
is the size of that schmuck’s torso and your handgun 
is the size of his head. Is he going to say no? If they 
were dumb enough to invite you into their home, then 
you’re going to clean them out. Easily justified consid-
ering even after you rob them—excuse me, “accept due 
payment”—tomorrow they go back to their plush cor-
porate lives, and within a few years they’ll have rebuilt 
their life savings. You? Tomorrow you’re waking up in a 
slum and risking your life for another job, and the odds 
of you being alive in ten years are slim to none. So get 
paid while you can.
Assuming you actually decide to go through the mo-
tions of accepting the amateur Johnson’s job, be aware 
that the intel they will have on the job is going to be 
worthless. They’ll either know nothing, or the intel is go-
ing to be so biased with wishful thinking that relying on 
it would be extremely hazardous to your health. (Exam-
ple: “Our good little girl has gone missing! She is help-
less, please save her!” No—she is an insect shaman, not 
a good little girl.)
All things considered, amateur Johnsons require 
some patience, but it can be a nice change of scenery. 
You might get a feel-good factor from doing these jobs, 
which I’ll grant can probably be nice every now and 
then, though that will directly correspond to a serious 
decrease in cash payment. Or, go for the other side of 
the coin and realize amateurs are easy marks for you to 
milk for very little effort or consequence. By definition, 
they have no experience in the shadows—therefore no 
contacts they can use. So whatever you do, it’s unlikely 
your reputation will be affected since nobody is going to 
hear about it. I mean, your conscience, if you have one, 
will know, but that’s your business.
>> RUN FASTER <<
<< BOSSES & BETRAYERS    211


===== runfaster.pdf p214 =====
Kat o’ Nine Tales scanned the AR views of properties 
while drinking a mimosa at the Millennium Hotel in L.A. 
The once-glorious homes of the rich and famous sit in 
front of her, strewn across the water like shells in the sand. 
Artificial and Twin-created islands made finding specific 
locations more of a challenge, especially when using 
mapsofts from before the quakes. As she flips the ethere-
al page of the virtual book, the walls and trid reacts to her 
selection. Pointing to one of the pages, a great chandelier 
manifests above Kat’s head and a ghostly spiral staircase 
emerges out of the wall. She stands up to look around. 
Not too shabby, lots of space and an upstairs, she thinks.
With one step forward, the room quickly shifts to the 
outside. Rubble from nearby homes is piled on the grey, 
lumpy lawn. Ocean salt and pollution from the Twins 
killed several large palm and black oak trees on either side 
of the driveway. Turning to look at the front of the place, 
Kat nearly chokes on the mimosa as all the windows have 
covered up. 
“Probably with projectors to avoid the view,” she 
signs, then scans down the floating AR window, looking 
for a price. She finds one, then shakes her head. “Igno-
rance is bliss, but not at that price.”
She flips to the next one and the room changes again. 
Colored light now projects from a beautiful stained-glass 
window above a balcony connected to twin staircases of 
reclaimed hardwood. She turns around to admire the ar-
chitecture. No art on the walls and more functional light-
ing, but somehow the lighting of the place appeals to her. 
Another step forward and the traditional lawn appears to 
have been replaced with polished stone and sand-sculpt-
ed landscape with large column stones to represent 
trees. It’s a style she finds appealing. Another step and 
she is to the edge of the island. Santa Monica is just on 
the horizon. There’s a cliff edge about five or six meters 
high, and someone has put in a floating dock and carved 
in a few steps. She looks at another AR window, reading 
that it’s apparently a reclaimed home, so the price has 
been marked down significantly. Kat schedules an ap-
pointment today to go see the place and then closes the 
program. The room reverts to the eggshell white empti-
ness as she steps out on the balcony to imagine the new 
residence.
Four hours later, with the Santa Anna breeze blowing 
across the ocean, she reaches the island. Her dress flaps 
in the wind as she reaches the top of the steps, but as she 
walks the natural path, the wind turns into a breeze, tem-
pered by the stone trees. 
“Another plus for the place, but I doubt it has any sort 
of plumbing or drinkable water,” she whispers looking 
around.
The house looked pretty good when she approached 
it. The paint has faded with the sun and ocean spray, but 
the windows and roofing appear to be intact. A digital 
voice on the door says “Welcome! Please come in—the 
realtor will arrive shortly.”
She opens the door and steps in. An oriental rug lies in 
the middle of the foyer allowing the light from the stained-
glass window to dance upon it. Walking over to the rug, 
she smiles at the artistic play of light. But the brief smile 
vanishes as she finds that her feet can’t move from the rug.
“Ah, yes. Beautiful work. I modeled it after your fourth 
album cover,” says a familiar voice.
Kat turns to see a rather pale man in the same yellow 
tweed jacket, rolling a small ball at her feet. She tries to 
pulls out her pistol and finds that her arms are weak and 
sluggish. Realizing the futile gesture, she smiles, “Larry? I 
thought you were dead. I see you have some new toys.”
“Yes, Kat, I had to relocate after a falling out with cer-
tain customers, but I found a great place here. Isolated 
properties and all that. My new clients offer a variety of 
toys to procure product for them. The immobility will end 
soon, so we’ll have to cut the formalities short. I’m glad 
you found this place, though.”
“I’m not staying long.”
“Indeed you’re not.” He approaches her with a long 
syringe, “I have shipments to fulfill and parts don’t stay 
fresh.”
“What I should have said, Larry, is that I’m not here 
looking for a place for myself. Some of Kane’s boys are 
wanting a safehouse for the summer, and I owed Kane a 
favor. Isn’t that right Scrimshaw?”
The front door is pushed open. Ducking through the 
doorway is a very weathered troll, whose arms wrinkle 
with muscle augmentation. “Aye, mum,” he answers. Be-
hind him are more people, partially obscured by Scrim-
shaw’s frame.
Kat sits down to wait for the spell to expire while she 
watches Larry grow even paler. “Larry, why don’t you 
negotiate the price with Scrimshaw, while the rest of the 
crew checks the place out. I’ll just sit here and enjoy the 
view.”
RUN FASTER
A DUMP OF
ONE’S OWN
212    A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN >>


===== runfaster.pdf p215 =====
WHAT’S IN A 
LIFESTYLE?
BY /DEV/GRRL
While I initially was forced into a discussion on safe-
houses and bolt holes a few years ago, I’ve found the 
subject interesting and have continued to think more 
about how we all live. Some of us have a house to go 
to, some are not so lucky, while others prefer hotels or 
living out of their car. Besides the physical aspect of a 
lifestyle, I asked myself, what else is there? As a com-
munity of shadowrunners, are there common forms of 
entertainment? Security? Paranoid habits? So in a more 
philosophical approach, I present a discussion about 
what’s in a lifestyle. Fastjack, this one is for you.
The first question is, what is a lifestyle? Simple—it’s 
how you live on a day-to-day basis, and is normally bro-
ken into socio/economic classes (Street, Low, Medium, 
Luxury, etc.). So the follow-up question is, what are the 
elements of a lifestyle? We can break a lifestyle down 
into a few elements. I count seven parts to a lifestyle: 
Comforts, Necessities, Security, Neighborhood, Enter-
tainment, Services, and Assets. While a lifestyle should 
include work, we all know what we do for a living, so 
we’ll leave that out for now.
COMFORTS
A comfort is something that gets you out of the elements 
and protects you from the cold, extreme heat, rain, or 
snow that may be raging outside. Hypothermia, heat 
stroke, sepsis, poisoning, and infection are risks that can 
occur in if we’re outside too much, but these are mitigat-
ed by modern conveniences of housing. In our lovely 
world, urban temperatures tend to run two or three de-
grees warmer than those in nearby rural areas. Smog and 
acid rain are a constant reminder of how we screwed up 
the world. The world can be cruel; have you been denied 
a decent apartment, because you don’t have a SIN to val-
idate your existence? So does what you do cause you 
to live with minimum comforts, or do you do what you 
do to gain more comforts? What I’ve seen is once you 
have some cash, a fake SIN is a necessity to get a dump of 
one’s own for almost everyone. How many of us support 
two different places of “comfort” (using the term loose-
ly)? One for the comfortable SINner, the other a hole-in-
the-wall for the shadowrunner personality?
>	
Hypothermia can set in, even in warmer climates. Walking 
around in fog-wet clothes in Seattle when it’s around 15 
Celsius can potentially lead to death in an hour. I’ve seen 
it happen in the Underground when people try to get out 
of the rain.
>	
Bull
>	
There’s always room in the Barrens, if you don’t mind the 
neighbors.
>	
Slamm-0!
>	
Coffin motels are fine if you run light, but they can be hard 
on relationships. Living from hotel to motel doesn’t allow 
you to personalize a place for yourself, and you have to 
suffer through any problems that exist in the room (bad 
heating, leaks, no AC, etc.).
>	
Kat o’ Nine Tales
>	
A bullet to the brainpan would also ruin a relationship. 
A coffin motel is easy to walk away from when the shit 
hits the fan. They allow something reasonably close to 
anonymity.
>	
Clockwork
 Everyone also needs a place to sleep. This can be 
difficult when you have to be wary of someone shanking 
you in the middle of the night for your shoes. With sleep 
deprivation, a runner can make mistakes or become 
slower to react. In this business, slow reaction equals 
death. So what do you do to achieve some semblance 
of adequate rest? 
>	
Get cyberware. You only need half your brain to function.
>	
DangerSensei
>	
That’s too easy an opening. Who needs sleep? LongHaul 
can keep you alert ’til you get where you’re supposed to 
be, and then some.
>	
Turbo Bunny
<< A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN    213


===== runfaster.pdf p216 =====
NECESSITIES
Food and water—or in some people’s cases, whiskey 
and a smoke—are daily necessities, not only to survive, 
but to properly live. Potable water is scarce, even for 
urban dwellers. Contractual obligations of various wa-
ter treatment and reclamation plants give preferential 
treatment to corporate premises first. In non-corpo-
rate areas, water quality, while within legal standards, 
leaves much to be desired.
>	
The water tastes fine, just don’t leave it next to an open 
flame or drink it before a drug test.
>	
Traveler Jones
>	
A drug test? Who do you work for, nuns?
>	
Haze
>	
Travel Tip #8: Water can contain germs. Whiskey kills even 
those germs in a glass. That’s how you keep from having 
Montezuma’s revenge in a foreign country. Even the 
pilgrims gave their kids light beer to drink!
>	
Kane
>	
And you wonder why you don’t get to babysit without 
supervision?
>	
Slamm-0!
>> RUN FASTER <<
<UPLOADING INITIATION #1>
Hi, I’m Otto Clutch,
I was told that I needed to give a little lifestyle background 
before I’m allowed access to the forum, so here it is.
I take two-liter bottles to the municipal steam-filtered 
water plant ten clicks outside of Redmond, in Kirkland. It’s one 
of the few cheap places to get potable water. I am one of the 
many SINless faces surviving in the barrens. I look threatening 
enough to get a few square meters of floor space at an old 
auto dealership and repair shop. I’m not the only one here, so I 
keep my stuff locked in the car and a Predator under my pillow. 
At least the garage is big enough for all of us to get out of the 
rain and vehicles out of sight. It’s not much, but it’s better than 
living on the street or in the car. The dealership has restrooms, 
but it’s a manual flush without running water. There’s no power, 
therefore no heat, or air conditioning anywhere. We’ve made 
do with a few scavenged batteries to power fans or heaters. 
Entertainment is whatever you can find on the public grid with 
your commlink or what’s playing at the local bar. We’re all 
here for mutual protection, or at least a deterrent by numbers. 
We also share what can be scrounged up to keep everyone’s 
wheels running. We all have a fear of being without a working 
vehicle, as that’s our escape route if things go south.
214    A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN >>


===== runfaster.pdf p217 =====
Food most likely is greyscale soy paste and a bottle 
of the flavor of the day. An apple is out of the price range 
of most shadowrunners. So do you suffer the same cold 
meal every day, do you eat out to have some semblance 
of the real thing, or have you added assets to your life-
style that help you get a little taste of something better?
>	
Cricket hatcheries are a big hit in Cal-Free. Doesn’t take 
much to keep them growing. Fry them up and they make 
a great traveling snack. If you don’t have a soy processor, 
sprinkle them in a bowl of soy and pretend they’re nuts.
>	
Kat o’ Nine Tales
SECURITY
Security covers a broad sense of how much a deterrent 
your place is to unwanted guests and criminal activities 
(other than your own). Those living on the street can 
only protect what they can hold on to; others up the 
lifestyle chain have a physical location that can store 
and protect them rather than have it on their back all 
the time. Security can be further divided into astral, 
physical, and Matrix security, though mainly we’re 
talking physical security, unless you’re a magician ca-
pable of putting up wards and calling up spirits or are 
rich as Villiers and have your own grid.
>	
There are magicians who can provide ritual services to 
protect a home. A bit expensive and has to be renewed 
on a monthly basis, but available. See Sanchez in Seattle if 
you have to deal with spirits and have no magic protection 
of your own.
>	
Ma’Fan
>	
Faraday cage wallpaper and throwback hard lines can 
keep nearby technomancers out of your business.
>	
Clockwork
NEIGHBORHOOD
Lone Star has categorized the various neighborhoods 
based on security coverage. From AAA to Z, each rating 
represents the security investment in the area, with AAA 
being the most secure and Z being, well, “fend for your-
self.” Their motivations for making those investments de-
pend on the various premises and, if there are corporate 
assets, what the corporation is willing to pay outside their 
own territorial security. So where do you hang your hat? 
Are you a Barrens Brat or a Corporate one? Do you just 
find a place to park your car and sleep in it like a posses-
sive rigger, or do you look for a motel vacancy?
>	
When I’m down on my luck, I just drive around ’til I find 
a good alley or a secluded parking lot to park in. For 
paranoia’s sake, you have to put some countermeasures 
around the area.
>	
Turbo Bunny
ENTERTAINMENT
When you are not sneaking through corporate halls or 
shooting people in the face for money, there are places 
you see and people you hang out with during down-
time. Do you hang out a bar? Do you relax listening to 
a live orchestra? Do you have season tickets to watch a 
sports team? How do you relax? Some people are so-
cial and hang out with others, some are anti-social and 
play video games or some other RPG, and then there 
are some like Kane.
>	
Now why am I being singled out here? I’m an ordinary 
guy. I prefer gambling, womanizing, driving fast cars, 
boats, jets, and blowing shit up. Explosions are more of 
a hobby. I’ve gotten pretty good in shaping a blast; kinda 
like fireworks, but with more kick.
>	
Kane
SERVICES
As part of your lifestyle, do you have your clothes dry-
cleaned? Do you subscribe to a grid? There are many 
tasks that we can hire others to do for discreet purpos-
es or to maintain a perception of “normalcy,” but which 
ones can you afford? Do they work under the table to 
provide their talents to the SINless masses or do they 
conduct a shadow business?
>	
Besides shadow banking that can launder corporate 
scrip and certified credsticks, I have a no-questions-asked 
laundry service that will patch up bullet holes and clean 
blood stains
>	
Pistons
<UPLOADING INITIATION #2>
Not sure why this question is on here, but here goes. I’m 
Geoduck, by day, just a low-end wageslave supporting other 
wageslaves. I do an average job with minimum hours so as 
not to show up on anyone’s radar. To them, I’m just a cook for 
Soylicious in Tacoma, and I’m good at it. I really am a culinary 
expert, but I won’t waste my talents at this point on the 
corporation.
I do this because when I come home, I’m not worried about 
some drug addict ransacking my place for something to sell. 
I have a bed to sleep in, good food to eat, a garage, even a 
backyard. I can BBQ with the neighbors; hell, there’s a group of 
us who go to the virtual gun range every other Friday. Granted 
the whole place is under the control of the corporation, but they 
don’t see everything. If I don’t bring “work” home with me, I’m 
okay and the corporation is none the wiser. Good enough for 
you, /dev/grrl? 
>> RUN FASTER <<
<< A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN    215


===== runfaster.pdf p218 =====
>	
Four Point Delivery Services. Weapons and other gear 
delivered to Pacific Rim destinations. They are on the 
Matrix if you’ve forgotten to bring something when you 
get to your destination.
>	
Red Anya
ASSETS
Your house is not just where you eat and sleep, it’s 
where you clean your gun, study magic, and maybe 
cook a little hooch. Assets are the tangible things that 
you can access. To everyone I’ve had to work with, ac-
cess to showers are a must. It’s not your reputation that 
precedes you; it’s your three-day binge after the last 
paycheck. Another must is a nearby laundromat. Wear-
ing dried blood to a meet-up can very easily send the 
wrong kind of message. 
>	
A sanctum of peace where one resolves internal conflict is 
also useful for those in our line of business.
>	
Man-of-Many-Names
>	
Not to crash /dev/grrl’s work, but I’d like to throw in a few 
comments on fashion relating to lifestyle. 
1. You will be treated as you appear. Try to blend in 
when you want to be invisible. Try to clash when you want 
attention. Try to be as ostentatious as possible when you 
want people to remember the clothing and not the person 
in them.
2. Never assume. That guy sleeping in the gutter in the 
beat-up lined coat drinking from a paper bag? Maybe he’s 
a street sam waiting for an excuse to show you his cyber 
enhancements and martial skills as he beats you into the 
ground.
>	
Plan 9
>	
Or he’s just a bum.
>	
Pistons
>	
Who is a contact of an enemy and is being paid to watch 
and report on who goes in and out of a building.
>	
Plan 9
Bolt holes and safehouses are common parts of a 
shadowrunner’s life. I’ve covered this before, but let’s 
sum up briefly: Bolt holes are prearranged, cash-only paid 
spaces that you crawl into when the shit hits the fan. Bolt 
holes are usually set up in advance and then left to sit in 
whatever dark, unseen place they inhabit. A bolt hole isn’t 
some vacation home in the Bahamas—it’s more likely a 
cargo crate with food rations, a chemical toilet, and noth-
ing but time on your hands to contemplate your sins and 
what to do next. A few people may share a bolt hole, but 
they might kill each other if they stay confined too long. 
A safehouse is much like what you see in the trids. 
A little out-of-the way home used on a temporary basis 
to keep people safe as they are moved out of the city/
country or just until business is taken care of. Corpora-
tions and governments use them for witness protection 
or to offer them to shadowrunners to babysit assets. 
A safehouse is generally a step up from a bolt hole. In 
that they tend to be controlled by some House Master/
Madame who maintains whatever operating façade the 
safe house has constructed. 
GAME INFORMATION
Presented here are optional rules for gamemasters and 
players to use to add more depth and playability to a 
character’s lifestyle. A lifestyle is divided into four cat-
egories: Comforts & Necessities (C&N), Security (S), 
Neighborhood (N), and Entertainment (E).
Each lifestyle has preset levels for these four cat-
egories, plus a set of points that can be spent to raise 
individual levels or buy entertainment options. Lifestyle 
categories cannot be lowered (unless, of course, you 
switch to a lower lifestyle level). Each lifestyle also has 
a category limit, listed in brackets next to the base level. 
The category cannot be raised higher than this limit. The 
Entertainment category does not have a level. Instead 
of being used to raise the level, points can be used to 
buy specific entertainment options (p. 219). Not all the 
points for each lifestyle need to be spent—each point 
can raise the monthly cost of the lifestyle, so players 
have to consider the benefits they get and the costs of 
gaining them. Each point spent on Comforts & Neces-
sities, Security, or Neighborhood increases the Lifestyle 
cost by ten percent of the base lifestyle. Points spent in 
the Entertainment category vary in cost; depending on 
the associated lifestyle, they may not bring in additional 
costs (see Entertainment, p. 219, as well as the informa-
tion for each category).
Lifestyle options (p. 224) can be taken to get more 
points for the lifestyle or reduce one or more categories. 
The negative options cannot reduce the level of a cat-
egory below 0; if an option would do that, it cannot be 
selected. A lifestyle can gain up to twice the starting life-
style points when taking lifestyle options. Some positive 
options can increase the limit; this is noted with each 
option. Additionally, some lifestyles come with lifestyle 
options already included. These are noted in the lifestyle 
descriptions below.
BOLT HOLE
Living the Bolt Hole lifestyle is not pretty. A bolt hole 
is a space away from everything (people, grid, enter-
tainment), and most often you’re stuck in it for a while 
because you need to stay out of sight. Add 4 to the 
threshold of any test involving someone trying to track 
a character who is living la vida Bolt Hole. In the En-
tertainment category, assets can be bought for a Bolt 
Hole, but not services or outings (see p. 219). Bolt 
holes only have a monthly cost when used. The char-
>> RUN FASTER <<
216    A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN >>


===== runfaster.pdf p219 =====
acter pays for the whole month, even if he used it for a 
day, or even just a few hours (though if you only need 
to hide for a few hours, use a no-tell motel already).
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 1[2]
•	
Security: 1[4]
•	
Neighborhood: 1[4]
•	
Points: 4
•	
Built-in option: Not A Home
•	
Cost: 1,000 ¥
STREET
See category description on p. 373, SR5. In this cate-
gory, increased levels in the Comforts & Necessities, 
Security, and Neighborhood categories result in a flat 
increase of 50 nuyen per level per month. Entertain-
ments come with their normal listed costs, but any as-
sets or services the player wants to purchase must be 
approved by the gamemaster, as they would have to be 
usable/accessible by the general public.
•	
Comforts & Necessities: 0[1]
•	
Security: 0[1]
•	
Neighborhood: 0[1]
•	
Points: 2
•	
Cost: 0¥ a month
FASHION BY LIFESTYLE
There are certain styles of clothes that come with each lifestyle; 
for each month of lifestyle purchased, characters get one set of 
clothes. If they want more, they have to buy them separately. If the 
character wants to make an impression or go slumming, they should 
purchase clothing that matches that lifestyle. There is also a social 
stigma of not dressing the part. When you are going to an interview 
with Mr. Johnson, you should be wearing clothes at the same social 
level as Mr. Johnson or at least the same level as the locale where 
you are meeting him. Most often, Mr. Johnson meets at some high-
class restaurant while he is dressed for success. The gamemaster 
may opt to impose a dice-pool penalty depending on how far the 
team’s dress is from where it should be.
Robin and her merry gang have just gotten their 
first meet with Mr. Johnson at a posh restaurant. Robin 
puts on her special little black dress made with real silk 
(Luxury class). As she arrives, she finds that her gang 
must have come from a combat biker rally, as they 
are wearing faux-black leather and smelling of cheap 
smokes and sweat. So as to not cause embarrassment 
(her little gang would have penalized her negotiations, 
leaving her to explain to Mr. Johnson that they really are 
professionals and/or apologize), she threatens them all 
with bodily harm if they don’t go home and come back 
clean and properly attired.
STREET AND SQUATTER
Vendingwear is a cheap option for people looking for modest 
covering, and if you have a Street or Squatter lifestyle, that’s what 
you get. Vendingwear is recycled plastic that is shredded and woven 
into fabric (with an elastic band for pants, socks, and underwear). It 
has no options except for color (avocado green or dirt brown) and 
size (small, medium, large, and extra-large). Many people who live 
on the street turn in bottles or old vendingwear to get new clothes. 
Prices range from 1 to 20 nuyen.
LOW
Besides thrift stores selling cast-off clothes of the middle class, 
Beaux Retail (Mitsuhama) has simple casual (20 nuyen) to business 
(100 nuyen) clothing made from industrial polymers and put together 
by the cheapest labor available. Kong Walmart has many affordable 
knockoff brands. Prices range from 20 to 150 nuyen.
MEDIUM
For business, you can go as high as Wellington Bros (Shiawase 
Fashion); for casual wear, Vashon Island (Shiawase Fashion) and 
Victory (Ares) won’t break the bank. Prices range from 150 to 500 
nuyen.
HIGH
A High lifestyle can always default to the original Très Chic 
Clothing (Aztechnology) for business or casual wear. Optionally 
there’s also a more Old World look with RhineGold (Saeder-Krupp) or 
Styling wearing KoGo (Wuxing). Prices range from 500 to 1,000 nuyen.
LUXURY
Designer clothes are a must for people living the Luxury lifestyle. 
This includes designs from artists such as Berwick (Mortimer of 
London), Armanté (Zoë), and Jean-Paul. Prices range from 1,000 to 
5,000 nuyen.
>> RUN FASTER <<
<< A DUMP OF ONE'S OWN    217
