======== PAGE 153 ========
vehicle drives over it, the strip sounds a powerful elec-
tromagnetic pulse into the chassis of the vehicle, at-
tempting to damage its electronics. A vehicle that drives 
over a zapper strip suffers 10 DV(e) damage. A zapper 
strip has enough power for 10 discharges before need-
ing to be recharged.
Tracking Strip: The tracking strip is a subtle way to 
gather information about vehicles that pass by. Once de-
ployed, whenever a vehicle passes over a tracking strip, it 
ôfiresö a stealth tag (p. 440, SR5) that attaches itself to the 
vehicle. A tracking strip contains fifty stealth tags.
SPECIAL TIRES
Tires are one of the easiest ways to customize a ve-
hicle. The following tires are available for all wheeled 
ground craft. Changing tires requires a Automotive 
Mechanic + Logic [Logic] (4, 5 minutes) Extended Test; 
or you can get your brother-in-law to do it for a case of 
beer, though that tends to take longer.
Off-Road Tires: Designed specifically for rough ter -
rain, these tires are not as effective as standard tires on 
standard roads. When equipped, the vehicleÆs off-road 
Handling is increased by +1, and on-road Handling is re-
duce by û1.  Off-road tires are also considered run flat 
tires (see below).
Racing Tires: The flip-side of off-road tires, racing 
tires are designed to maximize vehicle performance in 
urban conditions. When equipped, the vehicleÆs on-road 
Handling is increased by +1 and off-road Handling is re-
duced by û1.
Run Flat Tires: A common upgrade for shadowrun-
ners, run flat tires are filled with a dense but flexible 
foam instead of air. They continue to operate even when 
the tire has been punctured but will quickly deteriorate if 
the tire suffers significant structure damage.
TOOL KIT
It never hurts to be prepared! A smart vehicle owner 
will purchase at least an Automotive Mechanic Kit in 
their vehicle to affect emergency repairs, and possibly 
others if the vehicle has more exotic equipment (see p. 
443, SR5).
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST  <<    153

======== PAGE 154 ========
MODIFICATION 
LIST
Unless otherwise stated, a modification may only be 
taken once for a vehicle. When a vehicle stat such as 
Speed or Acceleration is listed as part of a modification 
attribute (like cost), use the vehicleÆs base or unmodified  
value in the calculation. In the case of Handling, which 
has two values, always use the higher value in any cal-
culations.
POWER TRAIN
Power train modifications all deal with how a vehicle is 
controlled and how the vehicle moves.
ACCELERATION ENHANCEMENT
Using a variety of techniques, like adding fuel acceler -
ants (such as nitrous oxide), turbochargers, optimized 
air intakes, afterburners, or hydrofoil drives, the accel-
eration of a vehicle is increased. Due to inherent limita-
tions in a vehicleÆs design, its acceleration performance 
can only be increased so far. In the end, though, thereÆs 
nothing like going from zero to gone before you get 
shot. Acceleration enhancement can be taken at Rating 
1 or 2, with the Rating of the modification being added 
to the vehicleÆs Acceleration value.
GECKO TIPS
Using cutting-edge technology, the portion of any ve-
hicle that contacts a surface can be made to strongly 
adhere to that surface. With the gecko tips modifica-
tion, small vehicles can be made to literally climb walls 
or adhere to surfaces at an extremely sharp angle. The 
larger and heavier a vehicle is, the more extensive the 
modifications that are necessary to make the gecko tips 
system work. There are definite limits to the technolo-
gy however, as it can only practically be installed on 
small mass vehicles and still allow them to move. If the 
gecko technology was applied to larger vehicles, they 
would literally rip away chunks of the surface they were 
adhered to if they tried to move. A vehicle installed 
with gecko tips can move on surfaces with angles that 
would otherwise be impossible, including vertically.
GLIDING SYSTEM
For those rare but frightening times when you find your 
(non-flying) vehicle plummeting to the ground, youÆll 
thank the Great Ghost you installed a gliding system. 
The gliding system deploys a large-scale parachute 
and uses a series of small thrusters installed on the 
hull of the vehicle to provide limited maneuverability 
while descending. For vehicles with an exceptional-
ly large mass, there is an upgraded system that uses 
other methods, including multiple parachutes and ret-
ro-thrusters, to slow the descent. While the system al-
lows a vehicle to fall and not be utterly destroyed, the 
landing is far from graceful. When it lands, the vehicle 
takes (Body / 2) damage just as if it had crashed (p. 201, 
SR5). Owners planning on using the gliding system on 
a regular basis will often install a Passenger Protection 
System (see p. 159). After it has been deployed, the 
parachute(s) in the gliding system can be released with 
a wireless or manual command. Repacking the para-
chute(s) for reuse is a manual process requiring about 
one hour.
HANDLING ENHANCEMENT
By adjusting the suspension and/or adjusting the work -
ings of control systems, a vehicle can be made more 
responsive to manual or electronic controls. This can 
range from optimizing control system response times, 
to more dramatic changes like gyroscopic stabilizers, 
or destabilizing the structural integrity of the hull. Han-
dling enhancement can be taken with a Rating of 1 to 
3, with the Rating added to the Handling (both on-road 
and off-road) of the vehicle.
IMPROVED ECONOMY
With this modification, the fuel consumption of the ve-
hicle has been optimized to use the minimum amount 
necessary for standard operation. Additionally, the ve-
hicle is fitted with a variety of different means to gather 
operational power from the environment around it in-
cluding sunlight, static electricity, and wind. A vehicle 
with improved economy doubles its operational time 
as long as it is operating within normal parametersùno 
high speed chases.
MANUAL CONTROL OVERRIDE
For runners that are extra paranoid about the Matrix 
security on their vehicle (or just unwilling to pay for 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
NAME AVAIL COST
Morphing license plate 8F 1,000Ñ
Spoof chip 8F 500Ñ
Spike strip 8R 200Ñ
Zapper strip 12R 2,500Ñ
Tracking strip 8R 600Ñ
Off-road tires 6 400Ñ/tire
Racing tires 6 250Ñ/tire
Run flat tires 4 250Ñ/tire
154    >> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST  <<

======== PAGE 155 ========
it), they can install a manual control override system. 
Nearly every modern vehicle made in the 2070s has 
the ability to be piloted remotely or purely through 
its electronic controls as well as its manual/mechan-
ical controls. If a rigger is really nervous about those 
electronic controls being taken over, they can install 
a switch so that the manual controls will always take 
priority over the electronic ones. In order to prevent 
the switch from being remotely deactivated, it is always 
mechanical in nature with the physical pressing of the 
button making or breaking connections to ensure the 
precedence of the manual controls. In game terms, 
when manual control override is activated, piloting a 
vehicle via AR or VR is not possible. The system can 
only be activated by someone physically in the vehicle, 
within reach of the switch (usually the driverÆs seat), 
and by using a Free Action.
MULTIFUEL ENGINE
For teams that frequently find themselves needing to 
travel far away from the comforts of modern civiliza-
tion, modifying a vehicle with a multifuel engine has 
provide invaluable. First, a portable plasma furnace is 
installed on the vehicle that can render small quantities 
of matter down to its constituent parts. Then, the vehi-
cleÆs engine is modified to be able to consume the raw 
material output of the plasma torch. This allows nearly 
any matter to be fed into the vehicle as fuel. A vehicle 
with a multifuel engine can always be refueled as long 
as there is raw material around to be processed.
OFF-ROAD SUSPENSION
For those that like to make their own roads rather than fol-
low them, there is the off-road suspension. Most modern 
vehicles are designed to operate on a smoothly prepared 
road and do not respond well out of that environment. 
With an off-road suspension, a vehicleÆs suspension sys-
tem has been replaced with one designed to operate in 
more rugged environments. The downside, however, is 
that the vehicle loses some of it responsiveness when op-
erating in regular on-road environments. A vehicle with 
an off-road suspension has +1 Handling when driving 
off-road, but û1 Handling on-road. This stacks with bo-
nuses from off-road tires (see p. 153).
REMOVED MANUAL CONTROLS
Riggers who are completely confident in their Matrix skills 
and security but worried about their lack of physical securi-
ty will often add a removed manual controls modification. 
Almost all vehicles in the 2070s are capable of being pilot-
ed by either electronic or manual controls. With this mod-
ification, the owner simply removes the option for manual 
controls, relying entirely on the electronic ones. Anyone 
wishing to pilot the vehicle who is not the owner must suc-
ceed on a Control Device Matrix action (p. 238, SR5).
RIGGER COCOON
For riggers, there is no safer place where they would 
leave their body than a rigger cocoon. Generally built 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
CORE VEHICLE MODIFICATIONS
Vehicles from the Shadowrun core rulebook (starting on p. 
461) have the following Standard Upgrades.
Dodge Scoot: Improved economy
Harley-Davidson Scorpion: Metahuman adjustment (troll)
Yamaha Growler: Off-road suspension
Hyundai Shin-Hyung: Four extra Body Modification Slots
Eurocar Westwind 3000: Passenger protections aystem (Rating 6), 
anti-theft system (Rating 2)
Mitsubishi Nightsky: Amenities (Luxury), life support (Level 1)
Toyota Gopher: Off-road suspension, special equipment (open box 
storage)
GMC Bulldog: Four extra Body Modification Slots
Yongkang Gala Trinity: Assembly/disassembly, smuggling 
compartment
Morgan Cutlass: Two heavy weapon mounts (external, turret, 
armored manual)
Proteus Lamprey: Standard drone rack (medium)
Artemis Nightwing: Signature masking (Rating 4)
R-F Fokker Tundra-9: Alternate propulsion: amphibious (surface)
Nissan Hound: Two standard weapon mounts (external, flexible, 
remote)
Northrup Wasp: Heavy weapon mount (external, flexible, remote)
GMC Banshee: Rigger cocoon, ECM 4
Shiawase Kanmushi: Gecko tips
MCT Fly-Spy: Realistic features (Rating 2)
Lockheed Optic-X2: Signature masking (Rating 3) *This explains the 
penalty listed on p. 466, SR5; it does not increase that penalty.
Ares Duelist: Two light weapon mounts (external, flexible, remote), 
realistic features (Rating 1)
GM-Nissan Doberman: Standard weapon mount (external, flexible, 
remote)
MCT-Nissan Roto-Drone: Three extra Weapon Modification Slots
Steel Lynx: Heavy weapon mount (external, turret, remote)
>> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST  <<    155

======== PAGE 166 ========
that a rigger may want installed on their vehicle. This 
could include such things as a dozer blade, snoware-
moval device, asphalt dispenser, road-paint applicator, 
or temperature controlled storage. No fixed costs are 
provided, as the gamemaster has final say on what can 
be installed on the vehicle and what effect it may have.
VALKYRIE MODULE
If you have teammates that just canÆt seem to stop from 
getting themselves critically injured, then they are going 
to thank you for installing a Valkyrie module. Named af-
ter the mythical maidens that carry a Viking warrior to 
the afterlife, the Valkyrie module is a small-scale, porta-
ble, automated emergency room. The module includes 
a bed with a transparent, enclosed lid and a host of so-
phisticated medical equipment with built-in software 
that can quickly analyze and treat almost any injury. 
Any person placed in the Valkyrie module is auto-
matically stabilized (p. 209, SR5). The systems on the 
Valkyrie module are equivalent to a Rating 6 Medkit (p. 
450, SR5), with all of the same functionality. Additional-
ly, the Valkyrie module operates as an autodoc, and so 
can be operated remotely (p. 208, SR5).
WINCH
For those times when a runner needs to pull or tow 
something and they donÆt want to call an underpaid 
and overweight member of the auto club, there is the 
winch modification. The basic winch hasnÆt changed its 
design much in about a hundred years. It has a heavy 
gauge steel cable ending with a hook or latch and wraps 
around a powered drum. A winch can be mounted on 
the front or rear of the vehicle, and comes with about 
one hundred meters of cable and can support a load 
of up to ten tons, provided the vehicle itself is heavy 
enough to support this. If wireless enabled, the winch 
hook can be released remotely with a Free Action. An 
enhanced winch is generally found in heavy industrial or 
rescue vehicles but can be useful to a runner. Its winch 
replaces the hook with an advanced system using a 
combination of gecko-grip technology and magnetism 
that can attach to any surface on its target without the 
need to manually place a hook on an appropriate part. 
The system can be activated or deactivated remotely 
with a wireless command (if enabled). The enhanced 
system can support a load of up to one hundred tons 
and includes additional stabilizers deployed from the 
vehicle and onto/into the ground to double the towing 
vehicleÆs weight for lifting purposes.
WORKSHOP
For the true tinkerers who can never be apart from their 
tools, a vehicle with ample enough space can be made 
into a mobile workshop. Niceties and comfort items are 
removed to make room for shelving, work spaces, and 
equipment. A vehicle modified in this way counts as 
being a Shop for the purposes of tool availability (p. 
443, SR5). The type of shop (Automotive Mechanic, 
Armorer) must be chosen at the time of the modifica-
tion and cannot be changed.
ELECTROMAGNETIC
Electromagnetic modifications are connected to or 
modify a vehicleÆs electronic systems.
ELECTROMAGNETIC SHIELDING
When a rigger wants absolute control over the signals 
that come in and out of their vehicle, there isnÆt a better 
option than the electromagnetic shielding modifica-
tion. This system builds a system of conductive metal 
bands into the exterior body of the vehicle, designed 
to conduct away and dissipate all wireless signals that 
attempt to penetrate the body of the vehicle, going in 
or out. This modification only works on vehicles that 
create an enclosed spaceùit is useless for vehicles that 
are open, such as a motorcycle. In game terms, the 
body of the vehicle acts as a Faraday cage for Noise 
purposes (p. 231, SR5) meaning that no communica-
tion is possible through the barrier. When the system 
is installed, the owner can choose to have certain sys-
tems or features be able to move through the barrier by 
running a physical wire through the cage. Any device 
that can connect to the body of the vehicle with a wired 
connection can bypass the Faraday cage.
ELECTRONIC 
COUNTERMEASURES (ECM)
Savvy riggers and deckers know that it is often easier 
to attack the signals controlling a device than to attack 
the device itself. To that end, a vehicle can be equipped 
with an electronic countermeasures (ECM) suite. This 
modification allows the vehicle to function exactly like 
an area jammer (p. 441, SR5), with all of the same rules. 
Just like a jammer, the modification comes with a Rat-
ing of 1 to 6.
GRIDLINK
Gridlink is a fairly ubiquitous feature for modern ve-
hicles in the Sixth World, at least in the areas where 
the sun of corporate control continually shines. Using 
a system of embedded power lines in the road system, 
any vehicle equipped with gridlink can use these lines 
to draw operational power and thus have an unlimit-
ed running time as long as it is connected. As with ev -
erything in the Sixth World, thereÆs a downside. In ex-
change for the free power, vehicles running on gridlink 
essentially give up control to the owner of the local 
GridGuidesystem. A vehicle is identified and tracked 
every second it is attached to the system, is limited to 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
166    >> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST  <<

======== PAGE 167 ========
the legal speed limit set for the area, and can be re-
motely shut down by the owner of the system. Most 
vehicles constructed come with a gridlink system as 
standard, but the system can be installed afterward 
with a vehicle modification.
In game terms, the host that controls the gridlink sys-
tem is automatically assumed to have 3 marks (or be the 
owner) of any vehicle connected. Needless to say, run-
ners consider the GridGuide system to be a major liabili-
ty to their work and will always (if theyÆre smart) remove 
the system or install a gridlink override (see below).
GRIDLINK OVERRIDE
Using a combination of hardware and software mod-
ifications, a vehicle can be equipped to override its 
gridlink system, and retain independent control. When 
activated, the vehicle appears to be a interacting with 
the system normally but cannot be shut down, can ex-
ceed the posted speed limit, and randomly rotates its 
identifier so it cannot be tracked for an extended peri-
od. Since even runners are pragmatic, the vehicle still 
draws its operational power from the gridlink system, 
as long as it is available, because who doesnÆt love 
stealing from the corps?
PILOT ENHANCEMENT
More than just another program, vehicle Pilot programs 
are some of the most sophisticated software programs 
in use today. Enhancing a droneÆs Pilot program takes 
more than just loading a new program: select chips 
on the hardware set are replaced and upgraded, new 
communication channels are installed to enhance in-
BODY MODIFICATIONS
MODIFICATION SLOTS THRESHOLD TOOLS SKILL AVAIL COST
Assembly/Disassembly 2 Body x 4 (Min. 1) Facility ù 6 1,000Ñ
Chameleon Coating 2 10 Facility ù 12F Body x 1,000Ñ
Extra Entry/Exit Points 1 8 Shop ù 8 2,500Ñ
Extreme Environment Modification 2 12 Shop ù 6 2,000Ñ
Increased Seating 2 6 Shop ù 4 2,000Ñ
Life Support
Level 1 2 10 Shop ù 8 Body x 500Ñ
Level 2 4 20 Shop ù 12 Body x 2,000Ñ
Mechanical Arm
Basic 2 8 Shop ù 4 1,000Ñ
Articulated 3 16 Facility ù 6 5,000Ñ
Nanomaintenance System (Rating 1-4) Rating Rating x 4 Shop ù (R x 5)R Rating x 5,000Ñ
Realistic Features (Rating 1-4) Rating Rating x 4 Shop Medicine (R x 3)R Rating x Body x 
1,000Ñ
Smuggling Compartment 3 16 Facility ù 8F 1,500Ñ
Shielding n/a 12 Facility ù 12F 3,000Ñ
Special Equipment variable variable variable variable variable variable
Valkyrie Module 4 6 Shop Hardware 
8
2,000Ñ
Winch
Basic 1 8 Shop ù 4 750Ñ
Enhanced 2 12 Facility ù 8 4,000Ñ
Workshop 6 20 Facility ù
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST  <<    167

======== PAGE 168 ========
formation gathering, and control systems are upgraded 
to provide improved sensitivity and additional maneu-
vering options. Unlike other modifications, the Pilot 
enhancement replaces the Pilot Rating of the vehicle, 
rather than adding to its existing Rating. A Pilot pro-
gram can have a Rating of 1 to 9
RETRANS UNIT
For riggers that want to cast a wide net of drones, or 
those wanting precision in a high-noise zone, the retrans 
unit is essential. Using a specialized system of signal 
capture and algorithmic reconstruction, the retrans unit 
rebuilds and rebroadcasts a specific signal, eliminating 
all the noise that accumulated on the signal up to that 
point. Thus the signal behaves as if it had originated at 
the point of the retrans unit. A vehicle equipped with a 
retrans unit that is part of a network of other devices can 
be used to rebroadcast all signal communications on the 
network. In game terms, when calculating the effect of 
Noise due to physical distance (see p. 231, SR5), the dis-
tance from the source or the destination to the retrans 
unit (whichever is greater) can be used instead of the to-
tal distance from source to destination. In other words, 
the Noise level is calculated as if the signal was originat-
ing or arriving at the retrans unit, picking the higher of 
the two. Note that this only works for communications 
across the network of drones, not beyond it; that is to 
say, a retrans unit cannot be used as a sort of bridge to 
eliminate noise for a decker attempting to hack into de-
vices beyond the drone.
Although multiple retrans units in a single vehicle 
provide no benefit, multiple vehicles equipped with re-
trans units can be used to form a ôchainö such that only 
the single highest noise value of all devices is used. A 
retrans unit can provide its functionality for all devices 
on a PAN.
SATELLITE LINK
Want to have a drone keep tabs on your doss while you 
sit on a beach halfway across the world? You need a 
satellite link. Any vehicle equipped with this modifica-
tion communicates exactly like it is equipped with the 
satellite link accessory (see p. 439, SR5).
SENSOR UPGRADE
Just like the Pilot program, a vehicleÆs sensors are a 
complicated and highly integrated part of the vehicleÆs 
electromagnetic systems. Vehicles that are massed 
produced for civilian use arenÆt designed with acces-
sibility and enhancement of their sensor systems in 
mind, so improving a vehicleÆs sensor suite is no easy 
task. Sensory devices themselves generally need to 
be replaced to be improved, as well as the processing 
hardware and software that controls them. As such, 
the sensor upgrade modification replaces the vehicleÆs 
Sensor rating rather than adding to its existing rating. 
Sensor Enhancement come with a Rating of 1 to 6.
SIGNATURE MASKING
When youÆre pulling a run, going undetected is more 
than half the battle. With the proliferation of sensor 
suites in the Sixth World, this is far easier said than 
done, but signature masking will go a long way to mak -
ing a vehicle harder to detect. With this modification, 
a vehicleÆs EM profile is reduced using a complicated 
(and expensive) set of techniques including: coating 
the vehicle in radar-absorbing materials, changing the 
angle on body panels, and thermal and aural dampen-
ing materials and systems. Signature masking comes 
with a Rating of 1 to 6, where the Rating determining 
the amount and extensiveness of the modifications 
done to to hide the vehicle. Whenever an attacker at-
tempts to either find the vehicle with a  Sensor Test, or 
attack the vehicle using Active or Passive Targeting, the 
Rating of the signature masking is applied as a nega-
tive dice pool modifier, along with any other Signature 
Modifiers (p. 184, SR5).
SUNCELL
For runners that are economically or environmental-
ly minded, the SunCell modification provides a great 
option. Using powerful solar-energy collectors and a 
battery system, a vehicle can be powered by collect-
ing solar energy. If operating exclusively during sunny 
daylight hours, a vehicle has unlimited operational time 
and needs no other fuel source. In any other conditions 
(where sunlight isnÆt readily available), the vehicle will 
use up all power stored in the battery and then switch 
to its standard means of power production (likely a fos-
sil-fuel engine). If operating in a mix of conditions, the 
SunCell system roughly doubles the operational time 
of the vehicle between refueling stops.
EXAMPLE
Rigger X is trying to communicate with a long-
range aerial-surveillance drone that is on the other 
side of the city, 15 kilometers away. Normally, this 
would result in a Noise level of 5. However, Rigger 
X has placed a drone equipped with a retrans unit at 
a point nine kilometers away from him and one kilo-
meter from the surveillance drone. The distance from 
Rigger X to the retrans unit has a Noise level of 3, and 
the distance from the retrans unit to the target drone 
has a Noise of 1, so Rigger X uses the higher value 
of 3.
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
168    >> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST  <<

======== PAGE 170 ========
exotic alcohol and real food, along with access to every 
Matrix entertainment channel or game available. Alterna-
tively, the vehicle can have its amenities downgraded to 
squatter (equivalent to most public transit), in which case 
it automatically gains the effects of the increased seating 
modification (see p. 164).
Skill tests (such as Social Skills or Healing Checks) 
that happen in a vehicle with an amenities modification 
are considered to be happening in the equivalent life-
style of the amenities. Gamemasters can apply bonuses 
to Social Tests for situations where a display of wealth 
or comfort would be advantageous. A character can 
choose to live in their vehicle, but must still pay the full 
cost for the chosen lifestyle.
ENHANCED IMAGE SCREENS
While every vehicle in the 2070s features some degree 
of imaging screens to communicate important vehicle 
information, many riggers and vehicle owners want to 
enhance that image displaying capability. With enhanced 
image screens, every sufficiently flat surface on a vehi-
cle (including windows) can display an electronic image 
or video. Theses images are hyper realistic and can be 
used to project a false image of the outside world in an 
attempt to deceive passengers. A Perception Test with a 
û4 penalty is required to notice that the images are false. 
Enhanced image screens can be used to display any vi-
sual feed on a PAN, perfect for team members unable or 
unwilling to use their AR, or tie their commlink or deck 
into the same PAN. They can also be used for plain-old 
entertainment. A vehicle with enhanced image screens 
can display any and all Matrix AROs that they can see/
access on the inside of their vehicle, making them visi-
ble to characters who do not have AR equipped.
METAHUMAN ADJUSTMENT
As time marches on in the Sixth World, death, greed, 
and racism seem to be constant. Despite the best ef-
forts of many metahuman activist groups over the last 
few decades, most vehicles are still designed and built 
with human (or human-equivalent) size in mind. As a 
result, any metahuman who wants to comfortably use 
a vehicle must have it adjusted to their body. For trolls 
and dwarfs, this means adjusting the position of ve-
hicle controls to fit their size. For orks and elves, this 
means more minor adjustments that take advantage of 
their distinct physiology. Orks and elves attempting to 
pilot a vehicle that has not been adjusted suffer a û1 
penalty to any Pilot Tests, and dwarfs and trolls suffer a 
û2 penalty. Pixies and centaurs shouldnÆt even try.
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
170    >> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST  <<

