

===== runandgun.pdf p144 =====
Watching the temperature numbers drop on the AR display while sitting in the cozy warmth of his MCT EnviroGen 
extreme environment tent made Grant Toshi beam with pride over the advanced temperature regulation systems he 
had helped to develop. It was thrilling to finally be out of the lab and in the field. Though he had some doubts in the 
beginning about using his precious vacation time to do some private field testing, he was past all that now. 
As the wind outside continued to howl and he watched the display slide past –30° Celsius, he slipped off the last 
of his garments to truly enjoy the cozy 24° C air inside the spacious tent. He considered the howling and pulled up 
another window in the AR field to jot down notes for a proposed upgrade, a model with more sound dampening. That 
note was quickly followed by a few more notes on how to develop that without compromising the other systems. 
He was in the middle of a heat absorption equation for MCT’s new Sairento™ advanced sound dampening material 
when Shiyonin, his agent program, informed him of a message he had just received. 
<Get dressed, exit the tent, and walk away.> No signature. No transmission authentication code. 
Toshi considered his options. Doing as the message said was not one of them. He had only reached his current 
location with the help of his guide, Shan-jun, who was currently assisting another climber on a distress call the pair 
had received about an hour earlier. He wouldn’t survive long without the guide, and he knew it. Toshi thought it best 
to simply negotiate. 
He tapped the AR reply icon and began to type on the AR keypad. <I understand the nature of your message and don’t 
wish to argue or insult, but I do not think I can exit…>
At the sound of a pair of quick slapping pops, Toshi stopped typing. He felt a chill immediately start to fill the air 
and looked up to see two holes near the top of the tent, which were flapping and growing larger with the gusting wind. 
Toshi tapped the voice operation command for typing and began to speak the rest of the message as he grabbed the 
repair kit and hurried to work on the holes.
“… this tent and survive, period, I would like to make an alternate arrangement, period, is your intention to get this 
tent for a corporate employer other than MCT, question mark, end message, send.” His voice was relatively calm and 
monotone while his hands frantically sprayed the InstaSeal™ repair fluid over the holes. The tent was resealed only a 
moment after the message was sent.
The reply came quickly.
Another slapping pop was followed almost instantly by something small and fast slamming into, and through, his 
gut before proceeding out the other side of the tent. 
Toshi didn’t bother to look down; he knew he’d been shot. It wasn’t as painful as he had always imagined it would 
be. His knees gave out quickly and he fell back onto the pile of clothes he had discarded to enjoy the warmth of the 
tent. He tried to sit up but found the muscles of his abdomen unresponsive. He craned his neck up and down and saw 
the clean hole where the bullet had come in and then the blood spattered mess around the tent’s exit wound. 
The cold air blowing in from the exit hole passed over his face and turned his breath to an icy mist. A freezing wind 
iced his shredded abdomen. He finally looked down and saw the steam rising from his warm blood. The blood was 
freezing fast, and instead of coagulating to seal the wound, the blood was forming an icy bandage. 
The calm suddenly left him, replaced by a rush of panic and fear. “Help!” Toshi screamed, again and again. A small 
part of his mind knew that the howling of the wind was much louder than his injury-hampered screams, and the 
screams grew quieter and less frequent with each breath of freezing air he drew into his lungs. 
It wasn’t long before the air in the tent was painful to breathe and Toshi began to waver on the edge of con-
sciousness. 
He remembered seeing the tent open and Shan-jun appear. He remembered the frigid chill as he was dragged out 
onto the snowy mountainside. He remembered the feeling of not-feeling, the complete loss of physical sensation. He 
remembered the thunderous explosion and the avalanche. He remembered the light, the voices, the warmth of the 
nutrient tank. He remembered the face of Shan-jun and the icy death to which he was left.   
RUN & GUN
STAYING
ALIVE
144    STAYING ALIVE >>


===== runandgun.pdf p145 =====
INTRODUCTION
Surviving in the shadows is not just about having the 
best armor or the fastest wires. Sometimes it’s about 
knowing when not to wear that armor, or knowing 
when those wires should be turned off so that a run-
ner’s body doesn’t start to cannibalize itself to stay 
alive. Smart runners know that the surrounding envi-
ronment can kill a runner just as dead as a bullet to the 
head, and it’s often far more painful.
The environment is also an important element in a 
Shadowrun story. “It was a dark and stormy night” is a 
clichéd beginning, but it’s repeated so often for a rea-
son—the elements evoke a particular mood. Surround-
ing conditions can play a role in any story, setting the 
mood, restricting travel or movement when required by 
a scene, or supplying a challenge that cannot be over-
come with bullets, blades, bombs, or bone lacing. 
This chapter gives gamemasters and runners more 
information about surviving extreme environments, of-
fering new tests for runners and expanding on the ba-
sic Fatigue From Environments rules in Shadowrun, Fifth 
Edition (p. 172), especially defining the characteristics of 
those environmental categories. The chapter also pro-
vides some new rules to create extended effects for 
long-term campaigns that come from over-exposure 
to certain negative aspects of the environment. Fatigue 
rules focus on the immediate or short-term effects of 
exposure to extremes of the environment. These ef-
fects can come into play during any game or any session 
when the environment is being used as an obstacle. The 
rules for long-term effects, by contrast, can come into 
play over extended campaigns, and perhaps may mani-
fest as character Qualities.
Players would be wise to use this section in conjunc-
tion with the Arsenal (p. 18), Armor & Protection (p. 
56), and Tactics & Tools (p. 88) chapters so they can se-
lect the handy tools they may need to survive their next 
trip into the most dangerous parts of the Sixth World.
WORLDLY 
HAZARDS
Through rain, snow, sleet, and hail, the run must go on. 
Not to mention scorching heat, oppressive humidi-
ty, blood-chilling cold, gut-wrenching pollution, and 
cell-searing radiation. Runners don’t always operate 
in the best conditions, and making the weather more 
than just a backdrop adds richness, excitement, and 
challenge to running in the Sixth World.
Each of the following sections describes the basic 
hazards of a different environment, defines in better de-
tail what the categories mean for that environment in 
the Shadowrun, Fifth Edition, and provides various mod-
ifiers to stay healthy and shoot straight in various envi-
ronments. 
HEAT
The hazards of heat are not limited to the flamethrow-
er in the hands of the local Halloweeners. Most of the 
dangers of a temperature excess are much more subtle, 
and though the rules in the core rulebook can be used 
to handle vague situations, here we’ll present more de-
tailed scene guidelines and some limit and skills mod-
ifiers to bring the real danger of spending too much 
time in the oven to the gaming table.
The metahuman body can be quite resilient when it 
comes to extremes of heat, up to a point. Perspiration, 
conduction, convection, and radiation are the primary 
ways that the metahuman body maintains a stable core 
temperature. Problems arise in three of the four methods 
once the ambient air temperature exceeds the regulated 
metahuman body temperature, and those methods be-
come almost completely ineffective. Only perspiration 
continues as an effective way to discharge excess heat 
when it gets too warm. However, perspiration costs the 
body additional resources and creates other problems 
for the overheated shadowrunner.
The basic heat environment is covered here. The 
sidebar Water in the Air covers how humidity can af-
fect the different environments and how the Fatigue 
From Environment durations shift based on humidity. 
<< Introduction    145


===== runandgun.pdf p146 =====
The deadly end of things is very high, but at those tem-
peratures, the average metahuman can only survive for 
under a minute. Stay out of the oven!
ENVIRONMENT SEVERITY
MILD
Mild heat environments range from 32° to 38° Cel-
sius (90° to 100° Fahrenheit). These temperatures can 
be found all over the world, especially in the tropics. 
During the summer months, even spots as far north as 
Nome, Athabaskan Council and as far south as Tierra 
del Fuego, Argentina have been reaching these tem-
peratures. A summer urban heat wave can keep tem-
peratures in this range for days at a time, long enough 
to wear down a runner on the street (Squatter or Street 
Lifestyle) and keep them worn down for the duration.
This level of temperature isn’t hard to survive for an 
average metahuman. They will only start being affected 
after eighteen hours or so. Usually by that point night 
has fallen and temperatures will be dropping, putting 
an end to temperature threats. An average metahuman 
will have to be exposed to temperatures in this range 
for thirty-six straight hours without any intervention or 
protection to fall unconscious and sixty straight hours to 
die. This makes these temperatures a great way to kill a 
runner slow or torture them (wink, wink, nudge, nudge), 
but not exactly a deadly environment. 
MODERATE
Moderate heat environments range from 38° to 43° C 
(100° to 110° F). Temperatures this high usually occur 
only during extreme heat waves in northern and south-
ern latitudes but can be a regular daily summer high in 
the middle latitudes, or many desert regions.
This temperature range is a bit more unpleasant but 
still not a quick killer. The average metahuman can stay 
conscious in this environment for eighteen hours, which 
should be plenty of time to find a spot to cool down. On 
average, death only comes after thirty hours out in this 
temperature. If a shadowrunner is stuck in this kind of 
heat for that long without finding a place to cool down, 
they probably deserve to die. 
HARSH
Harsh heat environments range from 43° to 55° C 
(110° to 130° F). These are some of the nastiest places 
in the Sixth World: Death Valley, PCC; the Gobi Desert 
in Asia, which touches half a dozen nations; and the 
Arabian Desert, where daily temperatures, even during 
the milder months, push up into this range. The sum-
mer months in these places sometimes move into the 
Extreme range. These temperatures are also found 
in some of the Sixth World’s deepest mines, where 
megacorporations dig through the earth trying to tear 
out every ounce of resources they can muster for a 
profit, or hide a project from prying eyes.
This is a temperature level that can be dangerous 
over shorter periods of time. The average metahuman 
can only survive in this environment for ten hours, less 
than the daylight period in many hot regions, and they 
risk unconsciousness after only six hours in the oppres-
sive heat.
EXTREME 
Extreme heat environments range from 55° to 71° C 
(130° to 160° F). These are usually the highest recorded 
temperatures for normal surface environments on Earth. 
These are also the temperatures you find inside the 
deepest mines on the planet when the ventilation mal-
functions (whether through breakdowns or sabotage). 
These temperatures can also be created in other places 
by hot machinery, forges with molten metals, or plac-
es with poor safety measures put in place by uncaring 
megacorporations who value profit over worker safety.
This temperature range is at the limits of extended 
metahuman tolerance. The average metahuman can 
only handle these extremes for about six minutes before 
passing out. By the ten-minute mark, they’re going to be 
done. Well done.
DEADLY
Deadly heat environments are those in excess of 71° 
C (160° F). Luckily these temperatures aren’t normally 
found in nature, but metahuman ingenuity has man-
aged to create a lot of things not found in nature. In 
nature, this temperature is only found near lava flows 
or lava plains and in mines deeper than two thousand 
meters. Digs to that depth are not common, but a 
few megacorporations have not limited the depths to 
which they will sink for resources and thus dig further 
each day. 
This level of temperature is truly deadly. The average 
metahuman will only survive in this environment for one 
minute and will only remain conscious in the environ-
ment for about forty seconds. 
PERSPIRATION  
AND DEHYDRATION
Hot environments make people sweat, and cold envi-
ronments make people wear lots of layers, which will 
often cause them to sweat and then absorb the pre-
cious liquid. Sweat is water leaving the body through 
the skin, water that the body would normally have used 
for other biological processes that are necessary to the 
continuation of life. Each different Environmental Se-
verity has a differing effect on how quickly characters 
need to make Resistance Tests against Fatigue from 
thirst. The increased rate only needs to be considered 
for Mild, Moderate, and Harsh Severity areas; Extreme 
and Deadly Severity areas will bring death well before 
dehydration is a concern.
>> STAYING ALIVE <<
146    Worldly Hazards >>


===== runandgun.pdf p147 =====
In a Mild Severity Environment, characters have only 
eight hours before they need to start replenishing the 
water lost due to perspiration. Fatigue Tests then follow 
every six hours after that until the character falls uncon-
scious. Once the character is unconscious, the body im-
proves the efficiency of water use and the tests occur 
every twelve hours. Drinking half a liter of water at any 
time restarts the Fatigue Test durations in this environ-
mental severity. 
In a Moderate Severity Environment, characters have 
only four hours before they need to start replenishing the 
water lost due to perspiration. Fatigue Tests then follow 
every three hours after that until the character falls un-
conscious. Once the character is unconscious, the body 
improves the efficiency of water use, and the tests occur 
every eight hours. Drinking half a liter of water restarts 
the Fatigue Test durations in this environmental severity.
In a Harsh Severity Environment, characters have 
only two hours before they need to start replenishing the 
water lost due to perspiration. Fatigue Tests then follow 
every 1.5 hours after that until the character falls uncon-
scious. Once the character is unconscious, the tests occur 
every six hours. Drinking half a liter of water restarts the 
Fatigue Test durations in this environmental severity.
These time increments and environments assume a 
normally dressed individual doing little to exert them-
selves. Characters exerting themselves through physical 
labor, extended overland movement, combat, or im-
proper or excessive clothing suffer dice pool penalties 
based on the Environmental Test Modifiers Table. 
SUNBURN
Not that it wasn’t bad enough that it’s hot and your 
character is sweating but that damn Sol, giver of all 
life on Earth, is glaring down at you trying to sear your 
flesh. For the less poetic, that means the sun is trying to 
give you sunburn. 
Sunburn can be more than just an annoyance. If 
you’ve spent time in a desert or just too much time 
outside at the beach and got some of those really nas-
ty sunburns that blister the skin, you know how badly 
ENVIRONMENTAL TEST MODIFIERS
CONDITION
FATIGUE ROLL MODIFIER
DURATION MODIFIER
Heat
Shorts
+1
—
Armor
– (1/2 Armor Value)
—
Humidity: High
—
Standard ÷ 2
Humidity: Low
—
Standard ÷ 2
Sunburn
Sunblock
+2
Standard x 1.5
Clothing
+2
—
Cloud cover
+2
—
Cold
Being wet
–2
—
Dehydration
Armor
– (1/2 Armor Value)
—
Combat
—
Every 3 Combat Turns
Humidity: High (90-100%)
—
Standard ÷ 2
Humidity: Medium (10-30%)
—
Standard ÷ 2
Humidity: Low (0-10%)
—
Standard ÷ 3
Engaged in manual labor
–1
Standard ÷ 2
Overland movement
—
Standard ÷ 2
Shorts
–1
—
>> STAYING ALIVE <<
<< Worldly Hazards    147


===== runandgun.pdf p148 =====
sunburn can affect the life of whoever gets it—right up 
to ending said life.
Sunburn damage is based on a lot of factors, but 
these rules focus on three: latitude, season, and time 
of day. The rest of the factors are handled as modifiers, 
found on the Environmental Test Modifiers table. 
Summer, December 20 to March 20 in southern lat-
itudes, and June 20 to September 20 in northern lati-
tudes, is the time when those areas of the planet get the 
most direct and concentrated rays of the sun, and thus 
offers the highest risk of sunburn. The winter months, 
the reverse of the dates above, offer the least risk. The 
most direct rays of the sun blast down on the tropics, 
Cancer and Capricorn, during their summer months and 
decrease in intensity throughout the rest of the year or 
as you move north or south of those lines during their 
respective seasons. Autumn and spring are about equal 
for the northern and southern latitudes, but those are 
the times of year when the equator gets the most direct 
sunlight. As for the time of day, that’s simpler. Between 
the hours of 1000 and 1600, the sun hits with its great-
est intensity.
The duration between Resistance Tests and the base 
DV of the tests are listed on the Sunburn Resistance im-
age. These numbers are for the height of each season 
and those unpleasant midday hours. The first DV listed 
is the starting DV for the Damage resistance tests. The 
second DV kicks in once a character has suffered at least 
4 boxes of Stun damage from the sun. At that point the 
damage stops being Stun and turns to Physical. Sunburn 
Damage Resistance Tests use only natural unaugmented 
Body. Cyberlimbs do not count as exposed flesh for the 
purposes of tests, so wearing shorts over your cyberlegs 
doesn’t incur the modifiers from the table. 
RADIANT HEAT
Direct sunlight isn’t the only way your skin can get 
scorched—radiant heat can do damage as well. Charac-
ters with exposed skin need to resist an increasing DV, 
starting at 1S and rising each Combat Turn, if they are 
exposed to intense radiant heat. This heat can come 
from being within proximity (exact distance is up to 
the gamemaster) of a lava flow, extremely hot surface, 
open flame, welding torch, etc. 
KILLING FROST
Metahumans are not evolved to be cold-weather crea-
tures. Over the millennia we have lost our insulating 
hair, we don’t put on thick layers of blubber to keep 
warm, and we complain when the temperature gets be-
low 20° C (68° F). We have developed tools and tech-
nologies to keep us warm, but sometimes those aren’t 
around to help you, or it might get so cold that even 
an Ares ThermalWeave™ jacket isn’t going to keep you 
from chattering your teeth and possibly losing some 
digits if you stay out too long.
Staying warm is basically a combination of two 
things, producing and retaining heat. The metahuman 
body will produce plenty of heat to keep itself comfort-
able, but only down to a certain point on the thermom-
eter. The body will stop perspiring, restrict blood flow to 
the surface, and release bio-chemicals to increase heat 
production, but each of these actions can have their own 
negative effects and damaging impact.
Stopping perspiration is a great way to limit heat loss, 
but it is one of the first mechanisms the body triggers to 
cool back down after exertion. In the cold, having skin 
covered in sweat can cost you. Any extended period 
of exertion or sudden temperature change can cause 
sweating to occur, and once the beads start to form, Jack 
Frost will start nipping at your nose and whatever other 
body parts are vulnerable. 
Restricting blood flow to the skin’s surface prevents 
heat exchange between the blood and the air, helping 
to preserve the heat within the blood. Problem is, ex-
tremities such as fingers, toes, ears, the nose, and every 
square centimeter of skin are then at risk. The ambient 
cold then begins to cause cellular damage that most 
folks refer to as frostbite.
As for the release of various bio-chemicals to in-
crease body temperature, the balance is a dangerous 
one. Too much and the body starts to sweat to cool off, 
too little and the effect isn’t great enough to actually do 
any good. In Shadowrun, this effect is taken into account 
with the Resistance roll that includes Body.  
The tricky thing about cold is that the metahuman 
body can usually survive for a little while no matter 
how cold it is. Until temperatures get to the point where 
things instantly freeze, the metahuman body is able to 
regulate for a little while. An average metahuman (Body 
3, Willpower 3) can survive an Extreme environment for 
about ten minutes with average rolls. Keep that in mind 
when planning the environment the players will face.
ENVIRONMENT SEVERITY
MILD
Mild cold environments range from 10° to –1° C (50° 
to 30° F). These temperatures may not seem very cold 
until you are stuck standing outside in them for a really 
long time in normal clothing. In northern and southern 
latitudes temperatures in this range for extended peri-
ods are common in every season besides summer. That 
means runners who have failed to provide themselves 
with proper regular shelter (Squatter or Street Lifestyle) 
can be affected every day. While deserts are usually 
thought of as hot, their nighttime temperatures often 
drop into this range and sometimes even lower. 
This range of temperatures isn’t hard to survive for 
an average metahuman. They will only start being af-
fected after eighteen hours or so, but unlike the hot side 
where evening can bring a cool respite, evening usually 
>> STAYING ALIVE <<
148    Worldly Hazards >>


===== runandgun.pdf p149 =====
makes the cold worse. An average metahuman will have 
to be exposed to temperatures in this range for thirty-six 
straight hours to fall unconscious, and sixty straight 
hours to die. Remember, this is the average metahuman, 
and they are not dressed for the weather. Wearing a 
jacket and long pants with a regular shirt will double the 
duration between Fatigue Tests in this category.
MODERATE
Moderate cold environments range from –2° to –13° C 
(30° to 10° F). Temperatures this low are common during 
the winter months in the northern and southern latitudes 
but are rarely found outside of freezers or at the tops of 
mountains in the middle latitudes. Deserts will occasion-
ally drop into this range at night during winter months. 
This temperature range is a bit more unpleasant but 
still not a quick killer. The average metahuman can stay 
conscious for eighteen hours in this environment. Hope-
fully they spend that time trying to find a spot to warm 
up. Death pays a visit around the thirty hour mark if shel-
ter and heat can’t be found. Wearing a jacket and long 
pants with a regular shirt doubles the duration between 
Fatigue Tests in this kind of environment.
HARSH
Harsh cold environments range from –14° to –39° C 
(10° to –40° F). These are the places where people 
learn respect for the cold and truly understand how it 
can kill them. Winter months in the Arctic and Antarc-
tic bring these temperatures for weeks or months at a 
time, and even the summer months get this chilly rath-
er frequently. These are also the temperatures found at 
high altitudes, where the snow never melts, the air is 
thin, and death hovers over every step.
This type of cold can be dangerous even for short pe-
riods of time. The average metahuman can only survive 
in this environment for ten hours, and they risk uncon-
sciousness after only six hours of this bone-chilling cold.
EXTREME 
Extreme cold environments range from –40° to –72° 
C (–40° to –100° F). This category contains the lowest 
recorded temperatures on Earth. Winter in Antarctica is 
regularly this cold. Outside of the polar regions, these 
temperatures occasionally occur during winter storms 
in northern and southern regions. Though the storms 
usually only last for hours, metahumans are only resis-
tant to them for minutes when it’s this cold. 
This temperature range is at the limits of metahu-
man tolerance. The average metahuman can only han-
dle these extremes for about six minutes before passing 
out. After ten minutes, they’re iced!
DEADLY
Deadly cold environments are those colder than –73° 
C (–100° F). Like the deadly end of heat, these temps 
are not usually found in nature on Earth. But again, 
metahuman ingenuity has managed to create a lot of 
things not found in nature. Advanced research labs 
have facilities that can get this cold to test all sorts of 
things, especially advanced science procedures that 
might be of value to rival corporations. If you’re raiding 
one of these facilities, bring an epically heavy coat. Or 
about twenty layers of clothing.
These temperatures will kill quickly, but luckily most 
of the nerves will be frozen and numb well before that 
point, so death won’t hurt much. The average metahu-
man can only survive in this environment for one min-
ute, and will only remain conscious in the environment 
for about forty seconds. 
PHYSICAL DAMAGE FROM COLD
FROSTBITE
Frostbite is a painful reality of exposure to cold tempera-
tures. The metahuman body tries to maintain its core 
temperature by pulling blood from the extremities and 
letting them fend for themselves, on the idea that it’s 
better to lose a few fingers or toes than to die. Frostbite 
is not a quick killer. Those who die from frostbite usually 
die from infection, not from the actual cold damage. 
The risk of frostbite begins when a character is ex-
posed to a Moderate or greater severity environment—
temperatures below freezing. Each Environmental Se-
verity increases the damage and decreases the duration 
between tests according to the Frostbite Damage table. 
Damage from frostbite has a cap of 4 boxes on each 
Condition Monitor. If the 4 boxes are reached on the 
Stun Condition Monitor, further Stun damage becomes 
Physical at a rate of 2 Stun to 1 Physical. The same goes 
in reverse if 4 boxes are reached on the Physical Condi-
tion Monitor—further Physical damage becomes Stun at 
a rate of 1 Physical to 2 Stun. 
After a character suffers their first box of damage, 
Stun or Physical, they are considered to have frostbite 
and suffer a –2 dice pool penalty to all actions per-
formed with their extremities. At the first box of Physical 
damage, the character’s Agility is treated as 2 lower for 
the purposes of determining Movement. Gloves pro-
vide a +1 dice pool bonus to Damage Resistance Tests 
against frostbite; if the gloves are insulated, they provide 
extra dice to resist this damage. 
FROSTBITE DAMAGE
CONDITION
DAMAGE
TIME
Moderate
1S
30 minutes
Harsh
2S
10 minutes
Extreme
1P
1 minute
Deadly
2P
2 Combat Turns
>> STAYING ALIVE <<
<< Worldly Hazards    149


===== runandgun.pdf p150 =====
COLD SURFACES/SUBSTANCES
Yup, we’re talking about sticking your tongue on that 
metal pole and the serious consequences of such an 
action. This also includes touching dry ice (solid state 
carbon dioxide), dipping a finger in liquid nitrogen (ox-
ygen, helium, etc.), or flipping that aerosol can over and 
spraying it in someone’s face. The damages for such as-
inine (or maybe heroic) actions are located on the Cold 
Substance Damage Table. The damage is resisted every 
time the character is exposed to the substance. In the 
case of submersion, make 3 Damage Resistance Tests 
for each Combat Turn (basically 1 per second). 
Splashing a supercooled liquid on someone or 
spraying them with something cold counts as a Ranged 
Attack Test and only applies damage once for each at-
tack. Glitches mean some of the stuff sprayed back, and 
the attacking character will have to resist the damage 
as well. Critical glitches means the attacker dropped the 
substance on themselves—they get to resist the dam-
age, while their target gets none, except maybe from 
pulling a muscle due to laughter. 
PERSPIRATION  
AND COLD DAMAGE
The rules for perspiration and dehydration (p. 146) also 
apply to cold weather environments. At low tempera-
tures, there is very little moisture in the air, so the body 
will lose it quickly to the environment and the clothes 
they are wearing. Losing it to the environment is better, 
since losing it to the clothes may pull the character into 
the dangers of being wet in the cold. 
INJURY MODIFIERS, 
ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS, 
AND COLD DAMAGE
So what benefit is there to being numbed by the cold 
when it comes to being injured? Well, none really. Since 
the cold is going to pull blood flow from the extremities 
and make the character shiver, and blood leaving the 
body will take heat with it, the two pretty much balance 
out most of the time. The gamemaster can decide what 
actions might be effected by shivering and whether 
blood loss from injury should increase the frequency of 
Damage Resistance Tests due to the cold. 
POLLUTION
Too often metahumankind does not look at the long 
term. They go for the short gain, which often comes 
with a low monetary expense but a high cost in terms 
of the health of the planet. Then afterwards, they simply 
bury the toxic waste they created beneath the ground 
or sink it in the oceans. Or worse, their mistakes cost 
too much to clean up and are simply left to mar the 
Earth with their blight. 
Areas with high levels of pollution can cause a wide 
range of effects. Some come with immediate unpleas-
ant effects, but others can be part of a long-term cam-
paign as runners who are too interested in collecting 
next paycheck fail to realize what is happening inside 
their bodies. 
COLD SUBSTANCE DAMAGE
SUBSTANCE
DAMAGE
AP
Inverted Aerosol Sprays
2P
+2
Metals below 0° C
4P
+2
Liquids –50° to –100° C
12P
–2
Liquids –100° to –200° C
18P
–4
Liquids below –200° C
28P
–6
WATER IN THE AIR
Extremes of temperature are one thing, but add in an extreme of 
humidity and life gets shorter and much less pleasant. High or low 
humidity during normal temperature ranges just makes life mildly 
uncomfortable, so humidity is only a factor at the extremes and 
should be considered in addition to the nasty effects of heat and the 
lack thereof.
HIGH HUMIDITY: RELATIVE HUMIDITY 90–100 PERCENT
Often the unpleasant counterpart to heat, the issues with humidity 
are two-fold depending on the temperature. A lot of humidity (water 
vapor) in the air makes hot environments feel even hotter and helps 
the already deadly heat sap the water out of your body even faster. 
On the other end, a lot of humidity in cold air, rare but possible, makes 
keeping warm even harder as the water pulls the heat from your 
body faster than you can produce it.
THE LACK OF HUMIDITY: RELATIVE HUMIDITY 0–30 PERCENT
Being parched is uncomfortable when you’re trying to deliver a 
few slick lines as you nervously try and get past a security guard, but 
it’s downright deadly when it happens in an extreme environment. 
Just like when humidity is abundant, the lack of humidity messes 
with the temperature regulation systems in the metahuman body. 
The effects of arid air are similar but even more extreme than 
humid air, as the moisture of the body is sapped even faster in arid 
environments. 
>> STAYING ALIVE <<
150    Worldly Hazards >>


===== runandgun.pdf p151 =====
In polluted environments, Fatigue Tests are based on 
an overall concept of the environment that a gamemas-
ter wants and its toxicity. Whether it’s acid rain, fog-like 
air pollution, or chemicals in the water supply or in the 
air, the gamemaster sets the scene to create a mood 
and level of threat for his players, or a sense of urgen-
cy where the players know they only have so long to 
get the job done before the environment does the sec 
guard’s job for them.
ENVIRONMENT SEVERITY
MILD
Mild pollution environments can be traversed as long 
as you do not endure prolonged exposure. Usually just 
going indoors is enough to remove the worst of the ef-
fects, and as long as you get away from the filth for a bit 
of time you shouldn’t suffer any enduring effects from it. 
An average metahuman can resist all ill effects in a 
Mild pollution area for up to eighteen hours, and endure 
about thirty-six hours before the local toxic gas levels 
or high toxic metal count takes them to their knees. Un-
checked. The gasses will finish them off around the sixty 
hour mark of nonstop exposure. When considering ar-
eas for pollution, keep in mind that even Mild areas are 
polluted enough to kill in just a weekend. 
MODERATE
Moderate pollution environments are worse. They’re 
usually devoid of all life, since most things are smart 
enough to get out while the getting’s good, or they’re 
home to animals that have adapted to the toxic envi-
ronment—frequently paranormal animals. This is the 
nasty area around the pollution-spewing factories that 
Average Joe works at. When he leaves to go back to his 
apartment he never really feels well, but he comes back 
because it’s his only source of nuyen.
These environments kill in just over a day (about thirty 
hours, to be specific) and incapacitate in about eighteen 
hours. When Average Joe starts getting woozy around 
hour nine or starts coughing uncontrollably around hour 
twelve he might be rethinking pulling that double shift. 
Hopefully he’ll know to get out while he still can or make 
sure to keep some extra filters handy for his mask.  
HARSH
Harsh pollution environments will have someone 
wheezing in a few hours and unable to stand in as little 
as five hours, and will leave their body to decompose 
in about ten. Luckily, there are plenty of bacteria and 
other microorganisms that adapt quickly to pollution 
to help that process. Places like this should be fresh or 
frequent dumping grounds for toxic waste or low-lying 
spots where heavier air pollutants are concentrated in 
the still air.  
>> STAYING ALIVE <<
<< Worldly Hazards    151


===== runandgun.pdf p168 =====
that they spend in those environments. If any metatype 
falls below their racially modified minimum they are 
barely able to move their own mass. These decreases 
are permanent and must be bought back up with Karma 
in order to be repaired or maintained. Agility can be in-
creased by a maximum of 2 and only up to characters’ 
metatype maximum. Characters with Muscle Replace-
ment cyberware are not susceptible to these effects. 
A heavy-G environment works the opposite way, but 
in a limited fashion. Characters in heavy G gain 1 point 
of Strength and lose 1 point of Agility for every three 
months they spend in a heavy-G environment, up to 2 
points each. Increases cannot take a character above 
their metatype modified maximum, but decreases can 
drop Agility to 0, at which point the character is un-
able to maintain muscle control in the environment and 
needs a regular gravity environment for rehabilitation.  
MAGIC
Due to the lack of mana in space, spellcasting be-
comes challenging away from the surface of Earth. Ele-
ment-based spells do not function in a vacuum, so they 
cannot be cast across empty space. Space locations 
function as astral voids, meaning spellcasters receive a 
dice pool penalty when they attempt any test that uses 
their Magic attribute. The penalty ranges from –8 (for 
places with decent concentrations of life for non-Earth 
locations, such as the Moon or a large space station) to 
–18 (for deep space). Note that the corps have noticed 
this difference and are encouraged by the fact that at 
least some extension of mana into space is possible. 
They are hard at work looking for ways to enhance 
magical abilities away from Earth, but the amount of se-
verely impaired mages they keep sending back to the 
surface indicated their success is mixed at best.
If you’re thinking about assensing or, worse, astral 
projecting in space, don’t. Attempting to perceive with 
your soul something that is completely absent is a good 
way to effectively have your soul sucked right out of 
>> STAYING ALIVE <<
168    Worldly Hazards >>


===== runandgun.pdf p169 =====
you, which tends to leave lasting wounds. Anyone at-
tempting to assense away from the safety of Earth must 
make a Willpower + Logic (5) Test. If they fail, their Log-
ic is permanently reduced to 1 (though it can be raised 
again with Karma).
Anyone foolish enough to astrally project in the 
emptiness of space doesn’t deserve a chance to stay 
sane. Their Logic drops to 1 as above, and they also lose 
2 points of their Magic Rating due to the soul-scarring 
nature of becoming one with nothingness (though again 
they can rebuild those points with Karma). Spirits cannot 
be summoned in space, as the summoning power of a 
conjurer away from Earth is not strong enough to con-
vince them to be suicidal. 
QUALITIES
NEGATIVE QUALITIES 
BLIGHTED 
(6 MONTHS, +5 KARMA; 12 MONTHS, 
+10 KARMA; 24 MONTHS, +15 KARMA) 
This quality has multiple levels to represent the dif-
ferent long-term effects of radiation and pollution 
damage to the character’s system and how drastical-
ly it affects everyday life for the runner. The quality 
can be taken at character generation to represent a 
life growing up in really bad parts of the sprawl, or it 
can be gained by dossing down in those spots for an 
extended period. 
The exact effects are not specified, only the effects 
it will have on rolls for the character. The penalties can 
be caused by organ shutdown, muscle spasms, cancer-
ous growths, etc. This quality cannot be taken in cam-
paigns that do not face the environments it is designed 
for without gamemaster approval.
Make an Edge (3) Test at the beginning of each game 
session. Success means no complications for that game 
session. Failure means they feel the pain of their rough 
upbringing in a harsh environment full of excess chem-
ical or radioactivity exposure. (To be clear, you cannot 
spend Edge on an Edge roll.)
6 months: Characters face a –1 penalty on all Phys-
ical actions.
12 months: Characters face a –1 penalty on all Ac-
tions.
24 months: Characters face a –2 penalty on all Physi-
cal actions and a –1 penalty on all other actions. 
EARTHER
(+3 KARMA)
Some people are just not meant to explore the stars. 
Space flight training usually weeds these people out, but 
most runners never go through an official space flight 
program. Characters who take this quality are especially 
inept in alternate gravities. They suffer a –2 dice pool 
penalty on all Physical actions taken in a gravity other 
than Earth norm. This quality cannot be taken in cam-
paigns that do not face the environments it is designed 
for without gamemaster approval.
POSITIVE QUALITIES
RADIATION SPONGE
(–5 KARMA)
Something about the cells of characters with this qual-
ity makes them more resistant to radiation’s harmful 
effects, but it also makes them hold onto that radiation 
for longer. The character always faces one less step for 
Fatigue from Environments in Radiation environments, 
and therefore never faces a Deadly environment. If a 
character spends time in a Deadly environment, treat 
it as an Extreme environment for Fatigue purposes; use 
the Deadly environment times and double the length of 
time for carrying Radiation with them.
For example, Glowboy is a Radiation Sponge who 
makes a two-minute jaunt into the heart of Glow City 
in Redmond to prove a point. He comes out a little 
tired but excited to tell his pals all about the trip. When 
his pals start falling over, Glowboy tries to help them 
but they only seem to get worse. Glowboy is carrying 
a Deadly environment around with him for 4 minutes 
after he leaves, plenty of time to kill his less-radia-
tion-friendly pals. He will also be carrying around a 
Harsh environment for 48 hours and a Mild environ-
ment for 48 more. Best he keeps away from other peo-
ple for awhile. 
RAD-TOLERANT
(–3 KARMA)
Sometimes characters are just different. Being able to 
stand on the outskirts of the Cermak Blast and just stare 
into the nothing for days on end, or even living there 
with no ill effects can be a blessing in disguise. Charac-
ters with this quality double the time before they gain 
the Blighted quality. Characters also always face one 
less step for Fatigue from Environments in Radiation 
environments, just like the Radiation Sponge. 
This Quality is incompatible with the Radiation 
Sponge Quality. 
SPACER
(–3 KARMA)
Some people are just naturally comfortable in alterna-
tive-gravity environments. They perform every action 
with a certain additional grace and style. These char-
acters gain a +1 dice pool bonus to all Physical actions 
taken in a gravity other than Earth norm.
>> STAYING ALIVE <<
<< Qualities    169


===== runandgun.pdf p170 =====
<Damn it, Finesse,> Phantom texted his chummer via commlink as they climbed through the ventilation shaft 
of the MCT drone factory they had evacuated only minutes ago. <Why didn’t your charges go off?>
<Not sure, boss,> replied the young elven street sam. <Might be a loose wire. Maybe the circuit failed. 
Could be a million different things. Can’t tell until I check the charges.>
<On four separate charges?!> Phantom fumed. <You fragging assured me you were good with explosives, 
and not a single one of them went off? That kind of crap risks our lives, screws up our run, and can trash our 
rep. I’m sure you don’t give a damn about my team’s reputation, but I do.>
Moving in silence out of the ventilation shaft and into a darkened hallway, the two shadowrunners 
cautiously slunk through the shadows. Retracing their original paths through the factory, the pair avoided the 
MCT night patrol and other security measures to arrive back at the drone assembly line, where the charges 
were placed. Once the two were certain their overwatch hacker had looped the security cameras feeds and 
the patrols were wandering other parts of the building, they began rechecking the charges.
“Yep,” Finesse whispered. “Detonator failed on this one, boss. I’m replacing it.”
“You gotta use better material than this,” Phantom replied. “And this charge has such sloppy wiring I can 
see two separate spots where it could’ve failed. And here, this wiring is frayed. How the fuck do you miss that? 
You’re lucky I’ve got a ’soft I can slot to fix this.”
Slipping a knowsoft into his skilljack, Phantom rewired the charge himself, fixing it in a few minutes’ time. 
“I shouldn’t have to be doing your job, noob,” he mumbled under his breath. Pissed did not even begin to 
describe what he felt for the young runner and the empty promises he’d made to score this job.
“There were also loose wires on charge number three,” said Finesse. “It’s all good now. They’re set.”
That was when Phantom saw what the elf had done to fix the last charge. “Wait, you fucking used Econo-
value batteries?!” Phantom exclaimed, unable to contain the cold rage in his voice any longer. “Made in 
Aztlan?! Batteries over a year old with no fucking charge left in them?! You’re done. I have no time for your 
bullshit!”
Triggering his wired reflexes, Phantom pulled his silenced pistol from its holster and without hesitation put 
two bullets into the elf’s skull. He re-holstered his pistol and rechecked the two charges Finesse had worked 
on and claimed were set. On his inspection, he discovered the elf had managed to get them right the second 
time around—a job that should’ve been done correctly fifteen minutes ago. Too little and too late for Finesse, 
as far as Phantom was concerned.
“Phantom, is everything all right?” asked the disembodied voice of Cypher, their overwatch support. “I see 
your gun went off twice. Should I send the rest of the team?”
“No need,” Phantom replied as he dragged the body over to the nearest charge. “Finesse bullshitted me 
one too many times, so I put an end to his incompetence.” He then pulled the dead runner’s commlink from 
his tactical vest and pocketed it, leaving nothing on the body to tie the dead runner to him or his team.
RUN & GUN
BLOW UP GOOD
170    BLOW UP GOOD >>


===== runandgun.pdf p171 =====
ADVANCED 
DEMOLITIONS
POSTED BY: BEAKER
A lot of young runners out there think playing with ex-
plosives and demolitions is exciting or exotic, or some-
thing they want to do just because it looks like hot drek 
from the trids or they just get a hard-on for making “big 
booms.” They don’t take into consideration that work-
ing with explosives is dangerous, and it takes a lot of 
skill, patience, precision, focus, and a steady hand to 
get the job done right. Demolition work is very much a 
science, and you simply must have a head for it. Being 
a quality demolitions expert takes as much dedication 
and street smarts as does being a skilled spellslinger or 
a wiz decker, especially if you like living. It isn’t some-
thing you can become an expert on overnight or do 
as a part-time hobby; to excel at it, you must devote 
a good part of your life to it. And don’t even get me 
started on all those slots out there who think all they 
need to know about explosives can come from skill-
softs they can buy on the streets. Most techniques in 
the demolitions field come from firsthand experience 
that develops over time, not from an optical chip writ-
ten by Lofwyr-knows-who. The last thing you want is 
to make a mistake with your explosives just because 
the person who wrote your knowsoft got something 
wrong and passed their mistake to you. I have heard 
too many horror stories of would-be demolitions ex-
perts accidentally blowing themselves up in their own 
safehouses because they didn’t know what the fuck 
they were doing or they relied on error-laden know-
softs. Even one simple mistake can prove deadly. And 
even if these dubious knowsoft authors had some sem-
blance of an idea of how to shape and set a charge, 
they often didn’t take into consideration all the para-
noid precautions necessary to purchase, make, and 
store explosives. They were simply too careless and 
left trails for others to find. Because of that, they found 
law-enforcement agencies charging through their front 
door, or they found other opportunistic runners gun-
ning for them, trying to steal their stash of explosives. 
Oftentimes this gets said runner killed.
If you want to be a demolitions expert and don’t 
already have a military or engineering background 
or corporate training, the first thing you need to 
know is that law enforcement does not want you to 
have explosives. They don’t trust your motives, and 
explosives in particular, especially in great quantities or 
higher grades, can do a lot of damage to a government’s 
or a corporation’s interests—not to mention killing or 
maiming countless innocent bystanders. Explosive 
devices on the streets tend to be hotter than any other 
stolen commodity on the black market, and if you don’t 
know what you are doing, you will get burned.
Fences and runners who regularly deal with 
explosives always have to be wary of sting operations 
designed to nab those who sell and buy illicit explosives. 
If you ever pay attention to the news, you know security 
corporations and other law enforcement agencies love 
to publicize their efforts in going after those who illegally 
possess and traffic in explosive material. It’s great PR: 
it makes them look competent and makes the masses 
feel safer. The only thing you might hear about more 
on the news is drug busts and the closure of betameth 
labs. If you intend to buy explosives and you absolutely 
need to use a SIN, use a fake SIN and use it only once. 
Consider it burned after that, and use a brand new fake 
SIN for your next purchase of explosive materials. The 
last thing you want is to accumulate a datatrail for all of 
your explosives-related purchases on the SIN and have 
law enforcement agencies actively start tracking that 
fake SIN back to you. If they start looking for you, you’re 
already in trouble. Yes, ditching fake SINs that frequently 
will get expensive, but the anonymity is well worth it.
Next, if you are in the market for explosives or the 
compounds to make explosives and a fence is offering 
you too good of a deal or is promising to get you large 
quantities quickly, walk away. They could be trying to 
dump their inventory because they know someone 
is actively looking for it, and they simply don’t want 
to be caught. Sure, it may seem like a good deal now, 
but it might not be such a good idea a few days later, 
especially if you find yourself facing down a dozen 
Knight Errant cops.
Also, the fence presenting you a “too good to be 
true” offer may be trying to pull off a sting for Knight 
<< Advanced Demolitions    171


===== runandgun.pdf p172 =====
Errant or Lone Star. The seller may not necessarily be 
an undercover cop, but chances are he’s already been 
pinched by the fuzz and is trying to get leniency by 
rolling over on his buyers. Knowing who you’re working 
with, what explosives should generally cost on the 
streets, and how your contacts operate is crucial to 
avoid acquiring materials that can bite you in the ass. 
And keep track of the news. Be street smart. 
If there are a lot of incidents dealing with explosives 
in your area from other runner teams, you can bet 
Knight Errant or Lone Star are taking steps to end it, 
which means stepping up sting operations. So don’t 
start putting out feelers for explosives immediately 
after an incident; wait for the heat to die down first. 
This usually happens within a month or two at most, 
as most metahumans tend to have very short memory 
spans and are easily distracted by the latest news net 
headlines. I wish I didn’t have to keep repeating this 
message, but runners keep getting caught by these 
bogus offers and sting operations by being stupid, so I 
guess the advice is still needed.
If you happen to be a brand-new runner team trying to 
acquire explosives, plan for initial difficulties and delays 
in getting your first batch. Your contacts want to avoid jail 
just as much as you do, so they will be cautious with any 
new business coming their way, especially if you seem 
like a deal too good to be true and don’t have the street 
cred to back up your claims. Trust issues run both ways, 
chummer. So my advice to any new runner team is this: 
When starting out with your career in the shadows, work 
toward obtaining your first batch of explosives—a small 
batch that won’t raise many red flags—as soon as you 
can. Your team may not initially need any explosives, but 
months later you might. And it will be a lot easier on your 
team if you already have a small stockpile of explosives 
as opposed to having to pay unfamiliar people for large 
quantities of untested explosives and risk becoming the 
target of a sting operation. Always plan ahead. That’s 
the sign of a good demolitions expert. And once you’ve 
established reliable contacts to buy explosive material, 
greater quantities and greater variety of materials will 
become available to you. As they say, good things come 
to those who wait.
>	
If that fails, you can always acquire your own bomb-
making shop or facility and make it yourself. Saves you 
the trouble of navigating a shady black market and gives 
you something to do between jobs.
>	
Balladeer
>	
Although a facility is ideal for demolitions work, it 
doesn’t come without its share of drawbacks. The biggest 
problem is facilities aren’t mobile. If you set one up, 
you’re going to start building a rep for making explosives, 
commodities that other runners want desperately, and 
many aren’t afraid to try taking them from you. If you 
invest in a demolitions facility, you’re going to have to 
invest in security unless you want to start guarding your 
shit 24/7. Wherever your demolitions facility is hidden, you 
should contact local gangers to see if you can arrange a 
deal where they can look after your facility, particularly 
when you are out on runs. The big thing here is making 
your facility tough enough to break into that any thieving 
bastards out there won’t consider it worth their time to 
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
CRIMINAL PENALTIES FOR ILLEGAL 
POSSESSION OF EXPLOSIVES
Posted by: Zhaaganaash
Listen up, chummers. Beaker is not lying to you when 
she says the law enforcement community takes a dim view 
on us selling and possessing illegal explosives. Of course, 
these penalties always vary according to local, national, and 
corporate laws, but this is the ballpark of the hard time you’ll 
be serving if you’re caught with any amount of explosives 
and you’re determined to be unlawfully in possession of said 
explosives. So be careful. And if you break the shadowrunner’s 
commandment and are caught, let’s just say I hope you’re an 
elf. Perhaps you’ll still be in good enough shape to resume 
shadowrunning once you get paroled with your brand-new 
criminal SIN in the year 2125. On the other hand, I suppose if 
you’re an elf, that means you’re relatively pretty, and you know 
what happens to pretty people in gen pop, so perhaps in jail 
that notoriously long life expectancy would end up being more 
of a curse than a blessing. But anyway … 
Most jurisdictions don’t care about how much explosives 
you’re carrying. Most just slap you with prison time based on 
the grade of the explosives in your possession. If you’re caught 
carrying multiple explosives with multiple grades, you will be 
facing multiple charges with multiple sentences. Most judges will 
be happy to give you consecutive sentences for those crimes.
For those unfortunate souls found to have used explosives 
in an attack (e.g., enough to destroy a building or used in a car 
bomb), the penalty is typically a life sentence. If fatalities were 
involved in the bombing, you could be facing the death penalty 
or worse. I hear the corps are still looking for “volunteers” in 
their Head Crash medical testing programs. From what I’ve 
been told, that is something you want to avoid at all costs. 
PRISON TIME AND FINES FOR  
ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF EXPLOSIVE
Rating of Explosives	
Prison Term	
Monetary Fine
1–5	
5 years	
50,000¥
6–10	
15 years	
100,000¥
11–20	
25 years	
250,000¥
20+	
50 years	
500,000¥
172    Advanced Demolitions >>


===== runandgun.pdf p173 =====
try. Perhaps they’ll choose to break into someone else’s 
facility a few blocks down, the place whose owner hasn’t 
taken the same precautions. At that point, better them 
than you.
>	
Sticks
Most runners who specialize in demolitions have 
dedicated fixers who focus on acquiring, transporting, 
and selling explosives. Many of these fixers have ties 
to the underworld and organized crime, such as the 
Vory, the Yakuza, and the Triads, groups that have 
considerable influence and resources to move product 
like explosives around with relative ease—through 
bribery and connections with corrupt law-enforcement 
officials, if nothing else. These individuals are valuable 
for knowing where the merchandise is coming from 
and whether it’s reliable. So if you don’t already have 
relationships with these kinds of fixers, I would suggest 
building connections like that as soon as possible. They 
could mean all the difference between a successful run 
and being sabotaged by various complications.
If you don’t have a quality fixer and are forced to 
obtain black-market materials from unsavory fences, 
you’ll find that purchasing explosives this way can 
be risky. You could luck out and buy material that’s 
commercially produced, which would be the most 
reliable, but it would also likely be stolen. If commercially 
produced explosive materials are stolen from anywhere 
in significant quantities, an immediate investigation 
frequently involves cooperation between corporations 
and national law-enforcement agencies, entities that 
may go so far as to employ other shadowrunners to track 
down and recover the stolen goods. Explosive materials 
have a very real shelf life, and they have to be moved 
fast. As I said earlier, you should be able to recognize 
the materials a fence is eager to get rid of quickly, as 
most fences will offer ridiculously good discounts to 
just dump the shit before law enforcement can track 
them down. Sometimes it’s worth taking the chance and 
buying those quality materials if only for the guarantee 
they will work; other times it could cost you and your 
chummers prison time or even your lives. Taking offers 
like these is always a gamble. I can’t tell you to always 
walk away from a deal like this, but I am saying there is 
generally a better way of getting what you need.
If you don’t want to take the chance of buying material 
that could bring heat on you or your team, there is always 
the option of buying homemade explosive materials on 
the black market. Lots of demolitions experts cook and 
sell their own explosives as a means of bringing in extra 
income during downtime between jobs. The advantage 
of homemade explosives is that they tend to be less 
traceable than commercially produced materials. They 
also show  up on the black market in greater quantities, 
so homemade tends to be cheaper and more available 
than commercially manufactured explosives. However, 
a significant downside of homemade explosives is they 
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
<< Advanced Demolitions    173


===== runandgun.pdf p174 =====
tend to be far more volatile. Some chummers do a 
good job mixing the compounds together, which makes 
the explosives nearly as reliable as commercial-grade 
materials. Other do-it-yourselfers, however, apparently 
failed their high-school chemistry classes, and their 
product is so volatile that it could produce a much 
larger explosion than needed, a much smaller explosion 
incapable of getting the job done, or it might not even 
explode at all. When purchasing homemade shit, make 
sure you always ask for a test of the material before 
purchasing it. Knowing how the batch of explosives 
performs will save you a lot of trouble later on.
>	
When you ask a fence for a demonstration, make sure 
you’re able to choose the sample to be tested. Some 
dishonest fences will pad their stock, half with the real 
shit, half with bogus material like modeling clay. And 
they’ll be happy to pick out the real stuff to demonstrate 
to you that it’s all good. And then, once you get back 
to your safehouse, you’ll discover that half of the 
merchandise is counterfeit and you were ripped off. If 
they don’t let you pick the sample to be tested, tell them 
you’re not interested. 
>	
2XL
>	
Having a face present at the buy is essential. After all, 
even if the fence lets you choose the sample to test, you 
could still be unlucky and choose a sample that works. 
Any face worth their salt should be able to key off of 
visual cues and discern that the fence might be trying to 
con you. Notably, your face should be able to tell if the 
fence is paying special attention to a particular block of 
explosive or whether he’s subtly trying to guide you to a 
particular block of plastique. The face should also be able 
to tell if the fence gets nervous when you start inspecting 
the merchandise. If the fence seems to be perspiring 
more than normal or if their heart starts racing at any 
time during the buy, you should walk away. If you have 
a face at the buy and you still get burned, I would say it’s 
time for a new face. 
>	
Clockwork
>	
Or instead of trying to buy straight from a fence, 
runners should always go through their fixer. Never try 
to cut out the middle man. That’s what we’re here for 
and why we are so good at our jobs: to make sure you, 
the runners, don’t get fucked over. We can tell you a lot 
of things and give good advice, like when it’s too hot to 
be buying explosives. 
>	
Am-Mut
>	
Like fixers can’t ever be screwed over by fences 
either. Especially in the case of explosives, when 
some drekheads decide to be clever and package 
bad, homemade explosives in counterfeit commercial 
packaging. Knockoffs and counterfeits can be as much 
the bane of a fixer’s life as they are for any runner out 
there. Some of those counterfeit products out there are 
really convincing, sad to say.  
>	
Bull
>	
And of course, there are always those legitimately bad 
products out there like the Ares Excalibur …
>	
Slamm-0!
Those of you looking to buy explosives should 
know that you have a lot of options available on the 
black market. Your standard commercial, foam, and 
plastic explosives can produce an explosion as big and 
powerful as you want or as small and controlled as you 
need. You also have the option of detonating cord, 
which allows for a much more controlled explosion 
and can also serve as a fuse to set off other explosive 
charges simultaneously. Explosives can also be used to 
cut through material. Linear cutting charges reduce the 
amount of explosive charge you need to cut through 
a material, and they come already tamped so that you 
don’t have to do anything special to modify the charge. 
You also have liquid explosives, which are capable of 
doing things that normal, plastic explosives cannot. This 
means you have a wide variety of tools at your disposal 
to handle a wide variety of jobs that call for demolitions 
work. Because of the inherent dangers involved, these 
jobs tend to pay higher (anywhere from five to twenty 
grand more than your average run), which explains 
why many runner teams are willing to take the risks 
associated with these types of jobs.
So what kind of work is available for demolitions 
experts? The most common jobs require runners to 
breach a secured location. Some bounty hunters use 
charges to breach locks to reach a fugitive. Others use 
explosives to breach vaults. These could be small wall 
safes, bank vaults, or even vaults within various research 
laboratories where top-secret research materials are 
stored. Sometimes runners need to break into storage 
lockers or other secured areas. Acquiring keys, passcodes, 
or other avenues for authorized access are not always 
feasible options, and the only way to get into a secured 
area is by creating your own entry point. Bank vaults in 
particular are difficult for runners to penetrate without 
explosives. Most modern vaults are set on time locks 
that are hardwired to unlock at specific times and cannot 
be overridden even by hackers. To bypass a time lock, a 
runner team would need to drill through the vault door 
to reach the locking mechanism and simply reprogram 
it, which can take a lot of time, and most vault doors 
have mechanisms that will seal the door if tampered 
with. The two choices for runners become hitting the 
bank while the vault is open (i.e., during business hours, 
creating all sorts of additional complications) or using 
explosives to blow the vault door off of its hinges when 
the vault is locked. Having a capable demolitions expert 
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
174    Advanced Demolitions >>


===== runandgun.pdf p175 =====
on the team is crucial for these jobs. Some vaults protect 
delicate materials that can easily be destroyed if your 
demo “expert” miscalculates and the resulting blast 
penetrates the interior of the vault.
Explosions can also be used to disable vehicles. This 
type of job usually happens during extractions, when 
runners feel it’s better to grab a target during transit as 
opposed to grabbing them from home or work. Runners 
will usually use explosives to cut through axles or 
disable the transmission to bring a car to a screeching 
halt. Explosives can also be used to disable vehicles 
for heists, such as when a runner team wants to stop 
a semi truck to raid the contents it is carrying. Other 
demolitions experts use their talents for wetwork jobs. 
Car bombs are a preferred choice for assassins, but 
a quality demolitions expert with the right tools can 
wire almost anything to explode, be it light switches, 
cyberdecks, commlinks, cyberware, and so on. There 
are also occasions when a runner team is needed to 
blow up buildings. These jobs typically involve relatively 
small structures, from warehouses and retail shops to 
houses and apartments. Very rarely do Johnsons ask 
for bigger buildings due the high-profile nature of the 
job and the potential blowback should things go wrong. 
But such requests do happen. Recently, a runner team 
in San Francisco imploded a twenty-story Universal 
Omnitech office building, but the corp quickly covered 
it up so the news didn’t spread. NeoNET has also had a 
few office buildings in Boston blown up recently, both 
apparently tied to the panic surrounding the Cognitive 
Fragmentation Disorder phenomenon.
One thing you’re unlikely to learn from knowsofts 
is that explosives can impact magic use. Most small-
scale explosive devices won’t affect spellcasting or do 
anything to create what magic users call a “background 
count”—I’m not a magic-user, so don’t bother asking 
me about the intricacies of background counts—but 
runners who use magic have told me that at a certain 
threshold, the violent impact of large-scale explosions 
can increase the ambient background count, sometimes 
permanently. This won’t really affect a job when the 
explosion comes at the end of the run, though. I’m 
talking about times when a runner team sets off an 
explosion in the middle of the job, such as cutting 
through the wall of a vault. Demolitions experts should 
be able to gauge the explosive potential of a charge and 
tell the rest of the team whether it could impact a magic-
user’s ability to channel mana. This is important, since all 
magic-users have told me that temporary background 
counts caused by explosions dissipate slowly, over the 
course of hours. Capable demolitions experts need to 
be aware of this possible complication to their team 
dynamic and prepare accordingly, in case their magical 
support suddenly becomes less effective in the wake of 
an explosion.
But I’ve gone on long enough about explosives. 
There’s only so much I can say without giving away 
trade secrets. And if you want trade secrets, you’re 
going to have to pay me. So stay safe, follow the rules 
I’ve provided, and if you need more, contact me. I’ll be 
happy to negotiate a price.
HOMEMADE VERSUS 
COMMERCIAL GRADE
In Shadowrun two kinds of explosives are available to 
characters: commercially produced explosives and 
homemade explosives. Commercially produced explo-
sives are much more reliable, as they are produced un-
der strict standards and quality control in a legitimate 
facility, using all the proper tools and compounds that 
are considered the industry standard. When the ex-
plosives are rated by a manufacturer, a consumer has 
a reasonable amount of confidence that the explosive 
material has the alleged rating and will do what the 
manufacturer says it will. On the other hand, home-
made explosives tend to vary greatly in quality and re-
liability, particularly those sold on the black market, and 
the character has no idea who made them or whether 
the producer mixed the chemicals properly. Charac-
ters buying homemade explosives on the black market 
cannot be certain that claims about the explosives be-
ing sold are true. Some fences will even try to pass off 
homemade explosives as commercial quality by pack-
aging them in convincing, counterfeit packaging—cor-
porate logos and all—to make a sale. When it comes to 
buying explosives, it is truly buyer beware.
All types of explosives for sale are also available as 
homemade explosives. The rating, availability, and cost 
for explosives on p. 436, SR5, and in the Demolitions 
Equipment and Supplies table are for commercially 
produced explosives.
When dealing with homemade explosives, the 
Damage Value of a particular material can range from 
being too volatile and too powerful to being too diluted 
and too weak. This variance can be as much as + or –15 to 
the Damage Value (applied secretly by the gamemaster). 
Sometimes, because the explosive compound is made 
incorrectly, it is incapable of exploding. When a character 
decides to buy homemade explosive material from 
the black market, he must choose the base rating he 
wishes to buy. The gamemaster will secretly modify the 
effective rating based on how rich or poor the explosive 
material turns out to be. Sometimes, there might be no 
change; homemade explosives can be made properly, 
but it is always a gamble.
Homemade explosives have a few advantages over 
commercial explosives. Homemade explosives tend to 
be less traceable and made from reasonably available 
and affordable materials. As such, a much higher 
quantity of homemade explosive material is available on 
the black market compared to commercially produced 
explosives, which are tightly controlled. On top of 
that, homemade tends to be cheaper. If purchasing 
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
<< Advanced Demolitions    175
