
===== PAGE 100 =====
CROSSFIRE
Successes required: 6
Description: This maneuver consists of placing two 
elements of the team into separate positions from which 
both can envelope a single target from two different di-
rections. The team leader must first identify suitable lo-
cations for his people to take up firing positions (solo 
Small Group Tactics + Intuition Test, Simple Action). The 
second step is maneuvering the team members into 
those positions (normal Combat Maneuver Test). This 
can be done either before combat as part of an ambush, 
or during combat as a tactical maneuver. 
Benefits: Attackers on the team receive a +3 attack 
bonus.
DIAMOND FORMATION
Successes required: 4
Description: The Diamond Formation is employed 
by teams of four and used defensively when moving 
through an open area of unknown potential danger. 
It is also used when the team is searching for a tar -
get/objective. The Diamond makes 360 degrees 
of overlapping fields of view and fire possible—en-
abling quick assessment of and response to incoming 
threats. The classic Diamond formation has the leader 
at the forward-most point of the diamond, a tail at the 
point directly behind her, and two other team mem-
bers at the diamond’s left and right points halfway be-
tween them. Larger groups can use modifications of 
the Diamond, such as placing additional team mem-
bers along the sides or at the points of the Diamond. 
It’s also common to use the Diamond formation as a 
defensive perimeter around whatever’s being protect-
ed—client, wounded, objective—at the center. A team 
in Diamond formation doesn’t have to waste time 
turning; the lead simply transfers to the point nearest 
the new direction of travel. Obviously the Diamond 
formation is not well adapted to narrow settings such 
as hallways and impossible to use when terrain forces 
the team to move single-file. 
Benefits: +1 bonus against any surprise/ambush 
checks, +2 on Initiative roll
DOG PILE
Successes required: varies
Description: A favorite of gangs who want to put the 
beat-down on larger metatypes or formidable individ-
uals, the Dog Pile looks like a mad rush but is in fact a 
tightly coordinated physical attack. The group swarms 
their intended victim, focused on disabling his or her 
extremities (thus, most common defensive moves sim-
ply make their targets easier to hit). Once the target is 
immobilized or brought down, the attackers strike vital 
areas until the target is neutralized. This maneuver is 
slightly different than others in its execution.
Benefits: For every 3 successes (rounded down) the 
leader makes in their Small Unit Tactics roll, team mem-
bers receive number +1 to their attack bonus. 
DYNAMIC ENTRY, STANDARD
Successes required: 4
Description: First developed by law-enforcement 
tactical response teams for use against barricaded sub-
jects and/or in hostage situations, the standard Dynamic 
Entry tactic is to suddenly fill a confined area with over -
whelming force and neutralize the threat. In a rare case 
of military adapting law enforcement tactics, the Dy -
namic Entry has become commonplace in small-scale, 
urban military actions. With Dynamic entry the team first 
“stacks up” outside the entrance(s) to the confined and/
or barricaded position, out of sight of their target. On 
signal they enter fast—it takes planning, choreography, 
and above all practice, practice, practice to be able to get 
a team through a narrow opening and overwhelm op-
ponents in a confined area without everyone tripping all 
over each other. Standard practice is for the team to go 
through in pairs, breaking left and right as they cross the 
threshold, until everyone is through. If a door must be 
breached, the “door kicker” blasts it with shaped charges 
or specialized ammo and the first pair go through before 
the smoke clears. (It’s not uncommon to send in drones 
or spirits as the first pair of team members.) As each 
pair enters, the team spreads along the perimeter of the 
room so each has a clear field of fire. The team leader is 
responsible for assigning positions in the line and select-
ing which direction they go in. The last team member 
who opened the door secures the entrance.
Benefits: If the attacking team breaches before they 
are seen by defenders, they receive a +3 attack modifier. If 
their approach and breach is known, the bonus is only +1. 
DYNAMIC ENTRY,  
“CHUCK AND CHARGE”
Successes required: 4
Description: This is the Dynamic Entry with 
explosives. Before the first pair crosses the threshold, 
the door kicker deploys an explosive device—i.e., 
pitches a grenade—into the room (normal Throwing 
Weapons Test applies). The team then waits for the 
device to detonate before breaching. Depending on the 
explosive device used, this can have dire consequences 
if not performed properly. 
Benefits: Same as the standard dynamic entry, but 
with any added benefits of the explosive device. 
FIRE SHIELD
Successes required: see description
Description: A variation of the old “Shoot and 
Scoot” artillery tactic, Fire Shield involves using long-
range artillery fire (grenades, rockets, mortars, offensive 
>> TACTICS & TOOLS  <<
100    APPLYING THE LESSONS >>
===== PAGE 101 =====
magic, etc.) and “walking” it toward a target or objective. 
As an offensive maneuver, members of the team/unit 
follow the fire shield in, mopping up any remaining en-
emies. It can be used as a defensive maneuver when an 
enemy force is close to a friendly position. Artillery fire 
is deployed behind enemy positions and then walked 
forward until the enemy force is neutralized or when 
it comes too close to a friendly position. This is a risky 
maneuver because to complete it, the team members 
deploying the artillery fire must succeed on an attack 
roll, with teamwork help from those walking it forward. 
A glitch will always require a grenade scatter test to see 
how close the weapon comes to team members, while 
a critical glitch drops artillery fire right on the heads of 
friendly forces. 
Benefits: +4 for all friendly forces maneuvering un-
der the shield, –2 for all enemy actions because of com-
bined artillery and regular fire. 
MARCHING FIRE
Successes required: 6
Description: This tactic is straightforward: The team 
maneuvers as a unit towards a objective, laying down 
suppressive fire as they advance. When the team is close 
enough to the objective, the steady advance becomes a 
charge. In most military situations, this is accompanied 
by either artillery or heavy weapons support and is used 
as a final push against an objective. The serious draw -
back to this tactic from a small unit standpoint is it was 
designed for use by military forces with lots of expend-
able personnel available. The Marching Fire maneuver 
requires you leave any cover behind, counting on the 
volume of your suppressive fire to keep the enemy from 
shooting you. Obviously fully automatic weapons are 
best for this maneuver. At one time firing while advanc-
ing greatly reduced accuracy, but with modern technol-
ogy this is no longer a significant factor. The team leader 
doesn’t coordinate in this maneuver much beyond des-
ignating the target and giving the order. 
Benefits: +4 for all attack rolls with semi-auto, burst-
fire, or fully automatic firearms. 
>> TACTICS & TOOLS  <<
<< APPLYING THE LESSONS    101
===== PAGE 102 =====
SLICING THE PIE
Successes required: varies
Description: Technically not a combat maneuver be-
cause it’s normally used before combat begins, Slicing 
the Pie (also known as Cutting the Cake) is a maneuver 
that’s been used by Law Enforcement/Security officers 
for decades and has become popular with military units 
engaged in urban warfare. Used during building search-
es, this maneuver is designed to look around corners 
into open hallways, through open doors into rooms, or 
around tall obstacles. Using a corner/wall/edge as cover, 
the searcher moves in a lateral or semi-circular pattern 
(with weapon up and ready) behind cover. This is done 
until they can visually identify the target/subject of their 
search. If done correctly, the searcher will only minimal-
ly expose themselves and then can take whatever action 
they deem necessary. The searcher may carry over the 
gained bonuses from this from Combat Turn to Combat 
Turn as long as they don’t move and other combatants 
stay in the same general area where they were first seen. 
Benefits: Defensive bonus to the searcher only 
based on number of successes when performing the 
maneuver. Maneuver fails if no successes are rolled, giv-
ing the searcher no bonuses or penalties. A glitch gives 
the searcher a –2 defensive penalty, while a critical glitch 
means they are seen by the enemy, who moves on them 
to force them from their position.
TRAVELING OVERWATCH
Successes Required: 2
Description: Similar to Bounding Overwatch, Trav -
eling Overwatch is a preventative maneuver. It’s meant 
to be used when speed is essential and best intel indi-
cates contact with an enemy is unlikely. When the team 
is in motion, one—or preferably two—members take a 
trailing position and periodically stop to carefully survey 
their surroundings. If the main body of the unit is at-
tacked, the overwatch pair can respond with either long 
range-support or engage in a flanking maneuver. In us-
ing this tactic, a drone or spirit will either complement or 
replace a team member in the rear overwatch position. 
The drawback to this tactic is that the rear overwatch has 
a chance of being separated from the main group or be-
ing eliminated without the main group realizing. This is 
why drone and spirit use has become popular in this po-
sition. For this maneuver, the team leader is always the 
team member in the overwatch position. 
Benefits: + 1 on all Perception Tests and + 2 to the 
overwatcher’s Initiative roll if combat is initiated.
THE TOOLS 
OF THE TRADE
Tactics and teamwork are important for a shadowrun-
ning team, but having the right tools is also rather im-
portant. As the saying goes: you’ve got nothing to fear 
if you got the gear. Below are few low-tech items that 
have been serving ‘runners well for years and a few of 
the latest gadgets for the tech-freaks.
PAINT GRENADE
A low-tech way of defeating pesky invisibility spells, 
marking something in a hurry, or just slotting someone 
off. Available in a variety of colors, the paint grenade 
has the same blast radius as the standard high-explo-
sive grenade but none of the nasty death-aftereffects. 
Subjects within the blast radius are covered with a 
splatter of paint. Radioactive tracking dye can also be 
added for an additional 50 nuyen. 
DAM AP BLAST AVAIL COST
— — 10m radius 8R 100¥
TELESCOPING MIRROR ON A STICK
Approximately the size of a human hand, the MOAS 
is perfect for covert around-the-corner surveillance 
when wireless or technological devices aren’t feasible. 
It comes with a fifteen-centimeter telescoping probe 
with magnetic clamp for extra length. 
AVAIL COST
10 35¥
GRENADE-CAM
A dodecahedron-shaped multi-purpose sensor plat-
form twice the size of a baseball, the G-Cam is usually 
thrown into an unknown area. Its reinforced casing is 
strong enough to survive a twenty-meter fall, and its 
shape ensures that it will eventually stop rolling. Mul-
tiple sensor apertures enable the G-Cam to obtain 
three-dimensional images of an area. Image link comes 
standard, and extra sensor options can be added. 
CAPACITY AVAIL COST
1-5 16R Capacity x 1,500¥
>> TACTICS & TOOLS  <<
102    THE TOOLS OF THE TRADE >>
GOING DARK
Not everyone in the shadows is keen on the wireless Matrix, 
especially after the new Matrix protocols were enacted. For 
some the potential drawbacks to being wireless—such as 
having your augmentations unexpectedly shut down—far 
outweigh any benefits. These niche operators prefer to use 
throwback technology and routinely disable wireless devices 
when they can. Even though the team’s riggers and deckers 
rely on current technology, a team may opt to “go dark” 
temporarily to avoid detection. This can be a viable tactic for 
secretly getting an asset in position to do real damage. When 
facing an opponent with superior Matrix assets, isolating all 
combatants can level the playing field. Operating in the dark is 
difficult but not impossible in 2075, and those who do develop 
skills that make up for their lack of reliance on tech. 
===== PAGE 103 =====
PERISCOPE CAM
An inexpensive, hand-held sensor package used to 
look around corners or over top of obstacles. Image 
link is standard and it comes with limited upgrading 
capabilities. It can be accessed wirelessly or viewed di-
rectly through a small viewfinder at the base. 
CAPACITY AVAIL COST
1-3 10R Capacity x 600¥
BATTERING RAMS
Sometimes, when a maglock pass key or a lock pick 
just can’t get the job done, a more robust method be-
comes necessary. Popular with entry teams, battering 
rams range from hunks of metal to high-tech wireless 
devices. Battering rams are not recommended for use 
as a melee weapon but can be used as such (use Ex-
otic Melee Weapon (Battering Rams) skill, assuming 
you had the foresight to select it). Battering rams use 
Strength + Agility for the attack test (see Destroying 
Barriers, p.197, SR5).
Standard Ram: A metal tube weighing approximately 
20 kilograms with a blunted end and handles along the 
sides, this is a no-frills entry tool that relies on the user’s 
Strength for breaching. The standard ram is normally 
used by one individual, but heavier versions are available 
and can be used by two average humans.
ACC REACH DAM AP AVAIL COST
4 — (STR+2)P –1 10R 2,000¥
Fluid-Motion Ram: The same as the standard 
battering ram, but it includes an internal ten-liter liquid 
reservoir. When used, the ram is swung backwards and 
then forward to strike the target. On impact the internal 
fluid in the ram creates extra momentum that increases 
the impact damage. Very useful against more durable 
doors, but using it requires two average-size humans or 
one average-size troll.
ACC REACH DAM AP AVAIL COST
5 1 (STR*+3)P –1 10R 3,500¥
*Strength Rating to be used is  
(combined Strength of all users) / (number of users)
>> TACTICS & TOOLS  <<
<< THE TOOLS OF THE TRADE    103
===== PAGE 104 =====
Pneumatic Ram: Also known as the P-Ram, a 
pneumatic ram’s breaching power comes from a large, 
battery-powered pneumatic piston. A P-Ram is too 
large and heave to be swung. The quad-legged device 
is securely positioned at the door or barrier before 
operation and triggered by a touch pad or wirelessly. Its 
power comes at the expense of mobility; it requires a 
four-person team of average humans to deploy. 
ACC REACH DAM AP AVAIL COST
6 — 16P –4 18R 10,000¥
Shock Ram: Users call it the Shock Knocker. It’s 
a shock ram is designed to disable electronic locks 
or defenses when it breaches a door or barrier. Four 
large conductive spikes protrude from the ram’s head 
that penetrates the barrier to deliver the charge. A 
metahuman in contact with the barrier or the spikes must 
resist shock damage per normal rules. Shock rams can 
be wirelessly discharged. Though an effective breaching 
tool, a shock ram requires frequent maintenance and 
constant monitoring, as repeated use can damage the 
mechanism and insulating protective casing. A glitch on 
a use test results in the batteries failing; a critical glitch 
results in a shock to the operator. 
ACC REACH DAM AP AVAIL COST
4 1 (STR+2)P 
+ 12(e) –3 10R 15,000¥
BLAST SHIELD
The blast shield is a two meter by one meter vari-
able-geometry shaped charge consisting of thermite 
strips and several high-explosive devices. Handle 
straps in the center allow it to be carried and used like 
a shield until it’s deployed. Adhesives or magnets can 
secure the blast shield to any surface. The charge can 
be detonated with a timer or remotely. To use as a me-
lee weapon, wielders must have Exotic Weapon (Blast 
Shield) skill; the accuracy rating of the item is 4. 
DAM AP BLAST AP AVAIL COST
20P — Target –4 8R 20,000¥
ARES PED (PERSONAL  
EXTRICATION DEVICE) MARK III
Originally called the “body bag,” the PED is a means 
to transport unconscious or immobile individuals that’s 
marketed to the general public as a lifesaving device. 
Essentially a flexible bag of woven Kevlar, the PED of-
fers protection roughly equivalent to medium armors, 
and it is available in sizes to fit all metatypes. The PED 
can form an airtight seal and sufficient insulation to 
protect in hot, cold, or toxic environments; a tank with 
sufficient oxygen to survive an hour is optional. Emer -
gency GPS beacons are standard. 
ARMOR RATING AVAIL COST
12 10R 2,500¥
ULTRA-GLIDE INDUSTRIAL LUBRICANT
ImpZetaChem initially intended to develop an innovative 
industrial-grade degreaser. On paper and in computer 
modeling, that’s exactly what they did. But when they 
tested their creation, they discovered the viscous liquid 
not only didn’t remove grease, it was itself almost im-
possible to remove without specialized solvents. More 
importantly, any surface coated with their experimental 
cleaner became for all practical intents and purposes 
friction-free. ImpZetaChem wasted no time in rebrand-
ing their failed cleaner as an industrial lubricant. Though 
chemically improbable, Ultra-Glide works—the coating 
produces a zero-friction surface that all but eliminates 
wear and heat in machinery. Sold to consumers in jugs 
and spray cans, Ultra-Glide is popular with security pro-
viders who use it to coat approaches to potential breach 
points. It can also be used in squirt weapons or in stan-
dard paint grenades (applicable skill tests apply). To move 
across a surface (per meter) coated with Ultra-Glide re-
quires an Gymnastics + Agility (3) [Physical] Test, or an 
Agility (4) Test to hold on to an Ultra-Glide coated item. 
AVAIL COST
12 30¥ (per liter)
HOLD-FAST ADHESIVE SPRAY
Hold-Fast was developed at MIT&T as an effort to 
meet—and cash in on—Dunkelzhan’s call for a non-le-
thal alternative to conventional firearms. Its intend-
ed purpose is to quickly immobilize subjects without 
harming them. Though initially rejected by the Draco 
Foundation for “not meeting the necessary criteria,” 
Hold-Fast was adopted by Lone Star after their own in-
dependent trials, conducted on the streets of several 
CAS cities, proved it to be effective in apprehension 
and crowd control. Hold-Fast is a liquid that is deliv -
ered through a sprayer not unlike a fire extinguisher. 
Once exposed to oxygen, the liquid hardens to form a 
clear plastic-like shell in about thirty seconds. Standard 
Hold-Fast become brittle after two hours, while the 
long-lasting formula is stable until removed with a sol-
vent. Use Taser ranges for Hold-Fast sprayer. Breaking 
free of Hold-Fast requires a Strength (4) Test. 
ACC DAM AP AMMO AVAIL COST
–2 Special — 10 12 50¥
PERSONAL INTEGRATED 
TACTICAL NETWORK
The PI-Tac (a.k.a. P-Tac, or—to old timers—Tac-Net) is the 
latest generation of personal tactical network. Used by 
both security and military forces, PI-Tac units are now 
available to civilians—once said civilian has passed a 
background check and been issued a permit. The Tac-Net 
concept is not new; team networking devices of one sort 
>> TACTICS & TOOLS  <<
104    THE TOOLS OF THE TRADE >>
===== PAGE 187 =====
an explosion, do not switch the damage from Physical 
to Stun, even if it does not exceed the modified Armor 
Rating. All damage caused by an explosive device is 
Physical in nature.
CAR BOMBS AS TOOLS 
FOR ASSASSINS
If you have ever seen an action adventure or organized 
crime movie, you know car bombs are a favorite way 
of doing away with snitches, witnesses, and other tar -
gets. In the Sixth World, using car bombs to kill targets 
remains a popular way of getting a wetwork job done.
In Shadowrun, there are a couple of different ways 
to plant car bombs to kill the passengers inside. There 
are the “dumb bombs” and the “smart bombs.” Dumb 
bombs are designed to respond to a specific trigger, not 
necessarily a specific target. A common dumb bomb 
wires an explosive device into the vehicle’s ignition via 
an electrical detonator. This type of car bomb remains 
inert until the person starts the car and allows the electric 
current from the car’s ignition system to detonate the 
explosives, killing the unfortunate metahuman(s) caught 
in the blast. Another type of dumb bomb is connected 
to a pressure-sensitive detonator and placed under the 
seat the target is expected to use; the bomb triggers 
when a certain amount of weight sits on the seat. This 
type of bomb can be placed under the driver’s seat, the 
front passenger seat, or the rear bench seat. The problem 
with dumb explosives is there’s a very good chance 
they won’t hit the target. Many vehicles in 2075 have 
a rigger interface, so a rigger can start the car remotely, 
triggering the dumb ignition bomb and destroying an 
empty car. If a car lacks a rigger interface, a bodyguard 
or valet can collect the car—again, the bomb hits the 
wrong target. Also, all but the cheapest models of cars 
allow the driver to start from several meters away by 
using a commlink. The problem gets compounded if the 
target uses multiple cars or has family members who 
might swap cars with the target at an inopportune time, 
which means so ignition trigger can easily catch the 
wrong person—or no person.
Other runners might choose to use a radio detonator; 
once the team has visual confirmation the target is 
in the appropriate seat, the bomb can be remotely 
detonated, assuring the success of the job. However, 
this costs runners time. Also, using a radio detonator 
requires runners to worry about noise interfering 
with the detonator signal. This is why experienced 
shadowrunners invest in smart car bombs that do the 
work for them.
A smart car bomb always uses an optical detonator 
and is always considered to be a complex explosive 
device. An optical detonator can be connected to 
sensors either wirelessly or via fiber-optic cable. Once 
the sensors confirm the target is in the vehicle, the bomb 
will detonate. An optical detonator has a processor 
as sophisticated as a standard commlink. Some 
runners will hide a micro-camera inside the passenger 
compartment (in the dashboard, in the dome light, etc.), 
which is wirelessly connected to the optical detonator. 
The detonator has been preloaded with a facial 
recognition program and images of the target. Once the 
program confirms the target, it triggers the explosion. 
Since some high-level targets use body doubles, and 
with the quality of cosmetic modifications available in 
2075, a number of runners are uncomfortable relying 
on facial recognition to get a confirmed kill. A variant 
of this smart bomb uses biometric scanners to confirm 
the presence of the target’s DNA or other biometric 
information before detonating. These scanners 
normally collect airborne particulates to confirm the 
target’s identity, or they can be configured to scan for 
fingerprints on the vehicle’s most commonly touched 
surfaces such as the seat belt, steering wheel, and glove 
compartment. Spray-on nanoprint scanners for these 
surfaces are becoming common for this type of work, 
with the nanoprint scanners feeding data to the optical 
detonator. Of course, this method requires a sample of 
the target’s DNA for biometric comparison by the smart 
bomb. Smart bombs can also be programmed to send 
a text message to the runner team prior to detonation, 
which informs the team that the target has been 
acquired and the detonation sequence has started. If 
set up with a camera, the smart bomb can send footage 
of the target prior to the explosion, which can be used 
as proof of death for the Johnson (though remember 
that the more wireless devices used in an explosive, 
the more opportunities there are to be discovered). 
This allows a runner team to be nowhere near the bomb 
when it goes off, ensuring a clean getaway.
To set up a vehicle bomb meant to kill only the 
passengers, the explosive needs to be placed inside 
the passenger compartment, such as under a seat. 
Otherwise, the explosive device will have to be powerful 
enough to breach the Structure and Armor ratings of the 
vehicle. The explosive device has to be shaped to create 
a directional blast that forces the brunt of the explosion 
toward the victim. When the device detonates, the 
explosion is considered a penetrating weapon for any 
barriers between it and the target, such as the seat, and 
the barrier itself absorbs one box of damage. The rest 
of the damage transfers to the target and anyone sitting 
within a 60-degree arc of the blast. Those outside the 
60-degree arc treat the explosion as a circular blast, with 
the blast’s damage dropping by 2 per meter. In this case, 
deal the damage to the individuals inside the vehicle 
first. All damage from the explosive device is considered 
Physical, no matter what the passengers’ Armor Ratings 
are. Once the passengers have taken damage, the 
vehicle resists the remaining damage: subtract from the 
Damage Value each hit the characters inside the vehicle 
rolled for resisting damage. Because the primary targets 
were the passengers and not the vehicle itself, only 
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
<< RULES FOR EXPLOSIVES AND VEHICLES    187
===== PAGE 188 =====
apply –2 AP to the vehicle’s Armor Rating. If the vehicle 
took at least one box of damage but is not entirely 
destroyed by the explosion, it is considered to be on 
fire. For every Combat Turn the vehicle is on fire, it takes 
1 automatic box of damage. If this fills up the damage 
track for a vehicle with a fuel-based engine, the vehicle 
explodes. Anyone still in the vehicle who survived the 
original blast would have to resist another 20P blast from 
the car’s exploding fuel tank.
When planting an explosive inside a vehicle’s 
passenger compartment, some players may choose 
to remove the door paneling and stick a tamped 
explosive inside. When the explosive device goes 
off, multiply the Damage Value of the explosion by 4 
instead of just doubling it. This extreme version of a 
car bomb is usually reserved for hard-to-kill targets, 
such as heavily armored and extensively augmented 
trolls. 
EXAMPLE
DUMB BOMB
Cold Heart was hired by a Manhattan Mafia Johnson to elim-
inate a witness in an upcoming trial. The UCAS Federal WitSec 
program relocated the snitch to Seattle until the trial date. Cold 
Heart does his research on the witness and learns he lives alone 
and works for Federated Boeing as an engineer. He also learns 
that he drives himself to work each day. The witness has no spe-
cial protection, only a new identity meant to keep him safe. Unfor-
tunately for the witness, a UCAS Marshal was happy to give up his 
identity and location for some cold, hard nuyen. Cold Heart found 
the target doesn’t carpool with anyone else and is a bit of a loner. 
Studying the car model the witness drives, Cold Heart learns that 
it’s limited to manual ignition and lacks a rigger interface. For Cold 
Heart, this is a perfect situation for a dumb car bomb.
One night, while the witness is asleep at home, Cold Heart 
breaks into his garage and tampers with his Ford Americar. Rolling 
an Automotive Mechanic + Logic [Mental] (3) Test, Cold Heart gets 
4 hits. He uses an electrical detonator and connects the ignition to 
1 kilo of Rating 14 plastic explosive. He places the explosive device 
underneath the steering column. Cold Heart also makes a Demoli-
tions + Logic [Mental] Test to shape the charge and gets 2 hits. The 
device now effectively produces 16P damage. 
The next morning, the witness turns on his car for work 
and it explodes inside his garage. The way it was planted, the 
shaped explosive device is considered directional. Since the 
distance between the explosive blast and the witness is less 
than 1 meter, he gets the full blast (16P). The witness rolls 4 hits 
on his Damage Resistance Test, but takes 12 boxes of Physi-
cal damage. The target is still alive but is 2 boxes into physical 
overflow (Body of 4). 
The Ford Americar now has to resist 12P damage from the 
explosion (16P – 4). The gamemaster rolls the vehicle’s Body and 
Armor Rating, –2 AP (15 dice), and gets 5 hits. The vehicle takes 
7P from the explosion and has caught on fire. Unless the witness 
regains consciousness and gets out of the vehicle within 4 Com-
bat Turns, the vehicle will explode and he will take another 20P 
damage. Needlessly to say, the target dies just prior to the car 
exploding.
SMART BOMB
Warhawk has taken a job to eliminate one of Mr. Johnson’s 
megacorporate rivals. He intends to plant a smart bomb inside 
the target’s armored limousine and has acquired 1 kilo of Rating 
20 plastic explosive. Warhawk connects the detonator to a mi-
cro-camera that will be planted inside the dome light of the lim-
ousine. He loads images of the target into the optical detonator’s 
facial recognition program. Warhawk researches the make and 
model of the limo in question and gets the precise dimensions for 
the rear bench seat, which will allow him to construct the bomb 
to fit underneath. Because the bomb uses an optical detonator, 
the device is considered a complex device. For the Extended 
Test, Warhawk will need to get 18 hits with an interval of 1 day. 
Warhawk has a dice pool of 13, and a Mental Limit of 6; he takes 
6 days to assemble the device.
Warhawk then waits for an opportunity to plant the bomb. He 
learns from his legwork that the target’s security will be taking 
the limo into an auto-detailing shop for some work. He bribes the 
owner of the shop to allow him access to the limousine, and he 
plants the bomb underneath the rear passenger bench seat.
The limousine is picked up from the shop a day later, and the 
human target, a troll bodyguard, and a human driver take it for a 
drive downtown later that day. Once the smart bomb confirms 
the identity of the target via facial recognition, it detonates. The 
target is sitting right on top the explosive device. The seat ab-
sorbs 1 box of the initial blast, so the target resists 19P , with an 
AP of –2. The human target only gets three hits on his Damage 
Resistance Test, so the target is killed instantly in the explosion.
The troll bodyguard is also caught within the directional ex-
plosive’s 60-degree arc and is sitting less than 1 meter away from 
the blast; he also has to contend with 19P damage. The body-
guard is wearing full body armor (Rating 15) and has titanium 
bone lacing. After resisting damage, the bodyguard suffers 10 
boxes of damage and survives.
The driver of the limousine sat approximately 1.75 meters 
from the victim, which is rounded up to 2 meters for determin-
ing damage. At this distance, the explosive blast is considered 
circular, not directional. By the time the blast gets to the driver, 
he must resist 15P damage. The driver only gets one hit on his 
Damage Resistance Test, so he dies also.
The gamemaster subtracts the hits the characters rolled re-
sisting damage from the 19P blast, which is 14 hits. The limousine 
easily absorbs the 5P . The limo may be fragged up on the inside, 
but it is not in danger of exploding. 
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
188    RULES FOR EXPLOSIVES AND VEHICLES >>
===== PAGE 189 =====
DISABLING VEHICLES
Players may choose instead to disable a vehicle using an 
explosive charge. Explosive charges planted on a target 
vehicle’s axles can disable the vehicle, which is useful for 
allowing a runner team to extract a target during a com-
mute. Planting a charge near the vehicle’s transaxle (the 
front axle and transmission assembly) is another effective 
way to immediately disable a vehicle. Instead of using the 
vehicle’s full Body + Armor Ratings to resist the damage 
from the explosion, only use the material Rating of the 
axle or transmission housing instead. Most standard vehi-
cle components are considered heavy material (Structure 
6, Armor 8), unless the target vehicle is a heavily armored 
security vehicle, in which case the components are con-
sidered to be made of reinforced material (Structure 8, 
Armor 12). Follow the rules for Breaching Charges, p. 191. 
If targeting an axle with an explosive device, use the di-
ameter of the axle as the thickness threshold required to 
cut through. If the component takes as much damage as 
its Structure Rating, it is considered either cut in half or 
destroyed. Should the explosion generate more energy 
than necessary to disable the vehicle, the vehicle could 
end up flipping onto its side or even rolling onto its roof. 
If the explosion produces 5P damage more than what is 
necessary to destroy the component, the car’s wheels lift 
off the ground and the vehicle flips onto its side. If the ex-
plosion causes 10P damage more than what was neces-
sary to destroy the component, the car rolls onto its roof. 
With each box above 10P, the car will roll an additional 
time, potentially killing everyone in the vehicle.
When planting the explosive charge, the character 
must make a Demolitions + Logic [Mental] (3) Test. A 
glitch on this test results in the explosion hitting the 
vehicle’s gas tank (provided the vehicle has one), which 
increases the DV of the explosion by 20P. 
ERASING EXPLOSIVE 
FINGERPRINTS
Most demolitions specialists who wish to keep a low 
profile from law enforcement choose to mimic the 
signatures of other bomb makers and have their work 
blamed on someone else. To accomplish this, the char -
acter needs a copy of a classified forensics reports 
detailing the traits of another bomb maker’s signa-
ture. Once she acquires such a report, she will need to 
make a Forgery + Logic [Mental] Test while crafting her 
charges. Double the threshold for her Extended Tests 
for making the devices, as she is intentionally taking 
extra time to make her work look like someone else’s.
USING EXPLOSIVES  
WITH DRONES
Demolitions-focused characters may also use drones in 
their work. Drones can be used to locate non-traditional 
entry points through which they can smuggle explosive 
charges into a building, such as open windows, a loading 
bay, or a roof door left ajar. Unfortunately, most drones 
lack the dexterity to physically plant charges them-
selves. Should a player use a drone to plant charges, the 
drone receives a –3 dice pool penalty for the attempt. 
The exceptions to this rule are drones with articulated 
arms that have a full range of motion and match the dex-
terity of a metahuman’s hands and arms.
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
EXAMPLE
Pyro and his team have been hired to extract a 
Shiawase scientist in Neo-Tokyo. After digging up info 
about their target, they realize it would be difficult to 
extract him unless he is in transit, as the target lives 
and works in a Shiawase arcology. The runner team 
believes the arcology’s security would be insurmount-
able should things go wrong while inside the struc-
ture. Instead they have their hacker grab the target’s 
schedule to see if the scientist will ever be outside the 
arcology, where they can more easily grab him. They 
are in luck: He will be going on a seven-day cruise and 
will be en route to the cruise ship via car, with only one 
security detail. Pyro’s team decides to plant an explo-
sive on the axle of the vehicle used to transport the 
scientist. They will set off the explosive charge at a 
given time and location, allowing them to pick an ideal 
spot along the route for an ambush. 
Pyro studies the target vehicle and realizes it’s a 
security vehicle with components made of reinforced 
material. Pyro is going to plant a device that will cut 
through the axle. For this model, the axle has a di-
ameter of 10 centimeters. Given that the material is 
reinforced, Pyro calculates that the axle’s Structure 
Rating is 1 (8 x 0.1, round up) and the Armor Rating is 1 
(12 x 0.1, AP reduces it by half, round up). Pyro wants 
to make sure he will take care of that axle, so he de-
cides on an explosion that can generate a minimum 3P 
worth of damage.  
Pyro decides to use a single device consisting of 
1 kilo of Rating 2 commercial explosive (which was 
reduced from 5 to 2 using a Demolitions Test). After 
his team learns which car will be used to transport 
the scientist for this vacation, the team sneaks into 
the motor pool. Pyro shapes the charge around the 
rear axle and puts the charge on a remote detonator. 
Pyro makes his Demolitions + Logic [Mental] Test and 
scores three hits. The charge is placed in a way that 
will not hit the gas tank. 
When the time comes for the scientist to go on 
his vacation, Pyro’s team follows the vehicle. Just 
as they reach the ambush point, Pyro detonates the 
charge. Because it is planted on the axle itself, the 
charge does 4P worth of damage (DV x 2) to the axle. 
The gamemaster rolls the Structure plus Armor of the 
axle to resist it (1 + 1) and gets no hits. No damage 
is absorbed, so the axle is broken and the vehicle is 
successfully disabled.
<< RULES FOR EXPLOSIVES AND VEHICLES    189
===== PAGE 190 =====
Some demolitions experts plant an explosive 
device inside the drone itself and then set off the 
charge once the drone reaches its target. Microdrones 
and minidrones cannot be equipped with explosive 
devices due to their bodies being too small. Small- 
and medium-sized drones may be planted with an 
explosive device of the same weight in kilos as the 
drone’s Body rating divided by 2. For example, an 
Aztechnology crawler—a small drone—may be planted 
with up to 2 kilos of explosives (Body 3 divided by 2 = 
1.5, rounded up to 2). A large drone may be implanted 
with an explosive device up to the same weight in kilos 
as the drone’s Body rating. For example, a Steel Lynx 
(Body 6) may have up to 6 kilos explosives strapped 
within its chassis. A rigger or someone with the proper 
Mechanic skill would need to plant the explosives, as 
sometimes the internal workings of the drone must 
be modified to make them fit inside. For blowing up a 
drone, apply the same rules for blowing up a car (as 
outlined in this section).
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
190    RULES FOR EXPLOSIVES AND VEHICLES >>
DEMOLITIONS SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT
ACCESSORIES RATING AVAILABILITY COST
Atomizer 1-10 (Rating x 2) R Rating x 300¥
Electrical 1-6 8R Rating x 150¥
Optical 1-6 14R Rating x 250¥
Hard-shell briefcase 
(hermetically sealed) 1-12 10R Rating x 100¥
Safety Fuse — 6R 5¥ per meter
Redundant Power Supply — 6R 50-500¥
Nanoprint Scanners 1-6 16F Rating x 500¥
DETONATORS RATING AVAILABILITY COST
Blasting cap — 8R 20¥
Electrical — (Rating x 4)R Rating x 30¥
Optical 1-6 (Rating x 7)F Rating x 200¥
Pull — 9F 80¥
Push — 9F 80¥
Radio 1-3 10R 75¥
Timer 1-3 (Rating x 6)F Rating x 50¥
EXPLOSIVES (PER KILO) RATING AVAILABILITY COST
Ammonium nitrate 4 5 80¥
ANFO 6 7 100¥
Commercial 5 8R 100¥
Dynamite 3 8R 350¥
Foam 6-25 12F Rating x 100¥
Nitroglycerin 6 11F 350¥
TNT 5 12R 200¥
Plastic 6-25 16F Rating x 100¥
Detonating cord (per meter)
Low Yield 3 10R 100¥
High Yield 6 14R 150¥
Binary 1-20 18F Rating x 125¥
Linear charge 1-25 16R Rating x 250¥
Liquid 1-25 16F Rating x 150¥
===== PAGE 191 =====
RULES FOR 
BREACHING/
CUTTING
Destroying vehicles and buildings is not the only func-
tion of explosives. Explosives can also be used to 
breach barriers or cut various materials. The following 
are rules for these smaller jobs. 
BREACHING CHARGES
The rules so far have presented a way of punching 
consistent, 1-meter holes in barriers and have shown 
how it is possible to create larger-diameter holes in 
barriers. Complications arise when the barrier possess-
es a depth greater than 1 meter but does not require 
enough explosives to produce a 2-meter hole, and a 
character needs to calculate the proper explosive pow -
er between those values to breach the material. Some-
times a character wants to damage the barrier in such 
a way that it is not completely breached, such as taking 
out a locking mechanism while leaving the other side 
of the barrier intact. After all, valuable art or delicate 
medical vials stored in a vault would not survive re-
ceiving even a small amount of force from a breaching 
charge. Electronics or optical chips could also be dam-
aged or destroyed by a blast. Just as there are rules to 
deal with breaching a barrier that is 1.75 meters thick, 
the breaching rules are also meant to help players and 
gamemasters calculate how to penetrate barriers thin-
ner than 1 meter. For example, a car door may only be 
20 centimeters in thickness, or 20 percent of 1 meter.
The first step is to determine the thickness of 
the material being breached and decide whether 
the breaching charge needs to completely breach 
the material or just partially damage the structure. 
Ultrasound sensors can help provide an exact 
measurement of the thickness of a specific material. If 
a precise measurement is not available, a runner can 
use a suitable Knowledge skill, such as Metallurgy, 
to provide an estimate of the material’s thickness. 
Getting a thickness measurement with ultrasound 
sensors requires a Complex Action. Once a character 
has determined whether the breaching charge should 
breach the material entirely or only partially breach 
it, the player needs to reduce the material’s Structure 
and Armor Ratings by the appropriate percentage of 
how much thicker or thinner the material is related to 
the 1-meter benchmark. Using the example of the 
20-centimeter-thick car door, a charge would require 
only 20 percent of the DV normally needed to penetrate 
the Structure and Armor rating of 1 meter of the same 
material. Assuming the car door is made of reinforced 
material (Structure 8, Armor 12), reducing the Structure 
rating to 20 percent of its normal value produces a value 
of 1.6 (8 x 0.2), rounded up to 2. The Armor Rating goes 
from 12 to 2.4, rounded up to 3 (12 x 0.2). If applying 
a –half AP to the Armor, the Armor Rating becomes 1.5, 
but with rounding up, it stays at 2. A player wanting to 
completely breach the 20-centimeter-thick car door 
should have an explosive charge capable of inflicting 3 
boxes of damage (to be able to overcome the damage 
the door is likely to resist). If he only wishes to produce a 
partial breach (e.g., to destroy the door lock), he may be 
able to get away with a lesser charge. 
Note that most explosives produce a Damage Value 
of 5P or more. When creating breaching charges, a 
character may use a Demolitions + Logic [Mental] Test 
to reduce the effective rating of the explosive, allowing 
characters to create a more precise charge, usually 
through removing excess explosive compound. Since a 
breaching charge is always placed on the surface area 
of the barrier being breached, the charge’s DV is always 
doubled. In addition, the Structure rating receives a –
half AP to resist the damage. Use this same method for 
determining how to breach materials that require an odd 
amount of force to either breach entirely or to create a 
partial breach.
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
<< RULES FOR BREACHING/CUTTING    191
EXAMPLE
Night Demon has been hired to break into a Horizon ex-
ecutive’s hotel room while the exec is at the country club and 
then break into the wall safe to grab optical data chips and 
work-related commlinks believed to be stored inside. Night 
Demon does his research on the particular model of wall safe 
and calculates that its door is 25 centimeters thick. He’s not a 
safecracker, but he knows how to use breaching charges, and 
his magician chummer can cast a Silence spell to make sure 
the explosion is kept quiet.
Night Demon knows that the safe door is reinforced mate-
rial (Structure 8, Armor 12). Because the items in the safe are 
considered delicate, he cannot afford to allow the explosion 
to penetrate the safe’s interior. In his calculations, Night De-
mon reduces the value of the Structure and Armor Rating of 
the vault door to one-fourth of their original Ratings (x 0.25). 
This gives a Structure Rating of 2 and an Armor Rating of 3 (x 
0.25). Figuring that the Structure and Armor rating of the wall 
safe can resist at least 1 box of damage, Night Demon knows 
he needs an explosive device capable of producing only 2 box-
es of damage: 1 box will likely be absorbed by the Armor, and 
the other box will punch a hole in the Structure and destroy 
the locking mechanism. He takes 1 kilo of Rating 5 commercial 
explosive and makes his Demolitions + Logic [Mental] Test. 
Night Demon gets 4 hits and reduces the effective Rating for 
the explosives to 1. When he plants the explosive directly on 
the wall safe door, this will double the Damage Value of the 
charge while reducing the Armor of the vault door in the pro-
cess by half (to 1.5, rounded up to 2). The gamemaster rolls for 
the door’s defense, and the final result is the desired partial 
breach in the wall safe door, destroying the locking mecha-
nism but preserving the contents of the safe. Night Demon is 
then able to swing open the door and collect Mr. Johnson’s 
merchandise.
===== PAGE 192 =====
CUTTING CHARGES
Cutting charges are used to cut into a particular mate-
rial or structure, such as beams, girders, or trees. They 
can be used to produce specifically shaped holes in 
material such as spherical or cubical shapes, depend-
ing on how the charges are arranged. Generally, a linear 
cutting charge, detonating cord, or explosive foam (p. 
436, SR5) is used for cutting charges.
When setting cutting charges, the character must 
know the type and thickness of the material. Ultrasound 
sensors can give precise measurements for preparing 
cutting charges. Once that information is known, the 
character can begin to calculate the amount of explosive 
needed and plant the necessary charges to cut through 
the material. Follow the rules for creating a charge as 
outlined on p. 436, SR5, and as outlined in this chapter. 
When building a cutting charge, count the charge as one 
device instead of multiple charges. Follow the rules for 
Extended Tests for one device, p. 182.
Planting cutting charges is a precise art, as opposed 
to randomly sticking a block of commercial explosive on 
a structural support point and detonating it. To plant a 
cutting charge, the character must make a Demolitions + 
Logic [Mental] (5 minutes) Extended Test, with a threshold 
equal to twice the number of kilograms of explosive 
used. If using detonating cord, the threshold becomes 
twice the number of meters of detonating cord used. The 
runner may choose to prepare this cutting charge ahead 
of time by using a frame charge, which is a wooden 
structure on which the charge can be set. Attaching a 
frame charge to the surface of the material that will be cut 
requires a Complex Action. A lot of runners avoid using 
frame charges. Since they are generally large—the size of 
the intended hole—and conspicuous as to their purpose, 
they are hard to sneak into areas without being caught. 
If the target being cut is cylindrical, use the diameter as 
the thickness necessary to cut through. The character will 
still need to make the Extended Test, but this test could 
be made in the comfort of a chemistry shop instead of 
on-site, where the character may have to start dodging 
bullets. Once the charge is planted, it can be detonated 
as normal via blasting cap, detonating cord, detonator, 
and so on. 
COOKING 
EXPLOSIVES
To cook explosives, a character must at least have ac-
cess to a demolitions shop (p. 443, SR5). A kit is insuf-
ficient for this kind of work, but it may be used to make, 
arm, and disarm explosive devices. Also, if a character 
is trying to mix explosives while using a shop inside a 
vehicle, any tests made while the vehicle is in motion 
requires 1 fewer ones for a glitch. A permanent facility 
is the preferred method for cooking explosives. Using 
a facility instead of a shop reduces the threshold for Ex-
tended Tests by 4. A chemistry shop/facility will suffice 
for mixing explosives, but using anything but a proper 
demolitions shop/facility works similarly to defaulting 
on skills. Chemistry and demolitions shops/facilities 
are similar, but the former may not possess all the spe-
cialized tools necessary to make explosives. Apply a 
–2 dice pool modifier when using a chemistry shop/
facility, as the tools are considered inadequate.
To make explosives, a character must have the proper 
chemicals. These are not included with a shop or facility, 
so they must be obtained separately. Without proper 
chemicals, making explosive material is impossible. To 
cook explosives, the character must chose the rating of 
the compound that they are trying to make. A character 
cooking homemade explosives must make a Demolition 
+ Logic [Mental] (30 minutes) Extended Test with a 
threshold for the appropriate explosive as given on the 
Making Explosives Table.
Cooking homemade explosives can produce volatile 
results. Mixtures must be precise for the explosive to 
have the desired rating. If an Extended Test roll produces 
no hits, the gamemaster adds to or subtracts from the 
rating of the explosive material by + or – 1. A glitch on a 
particular roll modifies the explosive’s rating by + or – 5. 
The final damage value of a batch of explosives may be 
modified up to a maximum of + or – 15. A critical glitch sets 
off the explosive being made, using the current effective 
rating of the device as the DV for the blast; the explosion 
is considered circular, which has a Blast Value reduction of 
–2 per meter. If using a shop, the shop is destroyed. The 
explosion could also destroy the vehicle the shop is set 
in or catch it on fire. The blast has an AP of –2. A facility, 
however, can survive the blast. A character may need to 
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
192    COOKING EXPLOSIVES >>
EXAMPLE
A runner team is breaking into a bank vault by 
going through the back wall and cutting through the 
rear vault wall. The vault wall is considered armored 
material (Structure 14, Armor 24). Ultrasound sensors 
inform the demolitions expert that the wall is 80 cen-
timeters thick. The demolitions expert calculates the 
explosives needed to cut into the vault wall and ar -
rives at the value of 22P to produce a 1-meter hole. 
However, because the demolitions expert desires to 
make a 1.5-meter hole, she multiplies the 22P by 1.5, 
for a total of 33P (an extra 11P).
For the vault wall, the demolitions expert brought a 
linear cutting charge. The charge tamps the explosive 
contained inside, providing a x 4 multiplier. The explo-
sive device, using 2 kilos of Rating 6 powdered explo-
sives, is now dealing 36P damage (9P x 4), with –half 
AP . The explosion efficiently cuts a 1.5-meter hole in 
the vault wall. Now, the runner team pushes the cut-
out part of the wall into the vault and heads directly to 
the safe deposit boxes.
===== PAGE 193 =====
invest nuyen in fixing the facility (gamemaster discretion), 
but the cost to fix a facility should not exceed half the 
facility’s original cost (25,000¥).  
EXPLOSIVES
AMMONIUM NITRATE
Ammonium nitrate is regularly used as a component of 
fertilizer. As such, ammonium nitrate can be easy to ac-
quire legally. However, governments and corporations 
are well aware that ammonium nitrate can be used in 
explosives, so they monitor and track the sales of this 
particular chemical. Buying too much at any given time 
from a legal source will likely raise red flags that law en-
forcement will investigate. Because of this, most runners 
involved in bomb making will acquire ammonium nitrate 
from black-market sources as opposed to legal avenues.
Ammonium nitrate consists of a powder or granules 
and requires a container to hold it before a detonator 
can be fitted. 
Ammonium nitrate will catch fire if set alight, but it 
will only explode if burned when enclosed in a container. 
Ammonium nitrate will not detonate when wet. It can 
be used as an oxidizing agent for other explosives 
and can also be used to modify their detonation rates. 
Other chemicals ammonium nitrate has been used with 
include nitroglycerin.
ANFO
Ammonium nitrate/fuel oil is a binary explosive, com-
bining ammonium nitrate and fuel oil. The two are 
mixed to enhance the effectiveness of the ammonium 
nitrate. ANFO is a common commercial explosive used 
frequently in mining, quarrying, and civil construc-
tion. ANFO is considered blaster cap insensitive, so 
it requires a primer to be detonated, such as a small 
amount of dynamite or TNT.
DETONATING CORD
Detonating cord is a thin, plastic tube filled with a small 
amount of high-grade explosive, with an explosive po-
tential that can be adjusted based on the length of the 
cord. Det cord, as it is commonly called, can be used on 
its own, wrapped around an object for use as a cutting 
charge, or used as a breaching charge to punch a hole in 
a barrier. It can also be connected to other explosives and 
used as a means to set off connected charges simultane-
ously as a high-speed fuse.
Det cord comes in two different sizes: low yield and 
high yield. Low-yield det cord is often used for special 
effects in various trideo productions and tends to be 
used against average material. High-yield det cord is 
more powerful and can be used on heavier materials. 
Low-yield det cord has a base Damage Value of 3P per 
meter; high-yield det cord has a base Damage Value of 
6P. For simplicity, add or subtract 1P from the power level 
of the detonating cord for every one-third of a meter (34 
cm) added or subtracted to the total length of detonating 
cord used. For example, if a player only uses one-third of 
a meter of low-yield detonating cord, the base Damage 
Value for the detonating cord is 1P. 
DYNAMITE
Dynamite is typically packed in sticks weighting 0.25 
kilograms each, but individual sticks can be taped to-
gether quickly to create larger charges. Dynamite is 
typically sold per kilogram. Although a powerful explo-
sive on its own, dynamite can also be used as a primer 
for other explosives, such as ANFO. 
GUNPOWDER
This is a catch-all name for modern smokeless gun-
powder, older black powder, and all other propellants 
used in firearm ammunition. Like ammonium nitrate, 
gunpowder must be put into a container before a det-
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
MAKING EXPLOSIVES TABLE
EXPLOSIVE
THRESHOLD 
(W/ SHOP)
THRESHOLD 
(W/ FACILITY) AVAILABILITY COST
Ammonium nitrate 12 8 5 75¥
ANFO 16 12 5 65¥
Commercial explosive 16 12 5 60¥
Dynamite 16 12 6 80¥
Foam explosive 20 16 8R Rating x 200¥
Gunpowder 16 12 3 25¥
Liquid explosive 20 16 8R Rating x 225¥
Nitroglycerin 16 12 10 150¥
Plastic explosive 16 12 8R Rating x 200¥
TNT 16 12 10R 100¥
<< EXPLOSIVES    193
===== PAGE 194 =====
onator can be inserted. Setting fire to gunpowder not 
in an enclosed container will only burn it, not cause it 
to explode. Gunpowder will neither burn nor detonate 
if it is wet.
An easy way to obtain gunpowder is to remove it 
from cased ammunition (caseless ammunition contains 
a plastic explosive instead of gunpowder), although 
about 500 rounds are needed to produce 1 kilogram.
LINEAR CUTTING CHARGE
Developed for making precise, clean cuts through ma-
terial with minimum effort, this is an inverted V-shaped 
sheath, typically made of lead, copper, or tin, with a 
layer of high explosive contained within. This device fo-
cuses the explosive blast onto the line to be cut, giving 
much greater penetration of the target material. Lin-
ear cutting charges automatically tamp the explosive, 
giving it the x 4 multiplier when detonated. One me-
ter of cutting charge contains 1 kilogram of explosives 
of the charge’s rating. Linear cutting charges are nor -
mally filled with granular explosives such as RDX, but 
other high explosives can also be use, including PETN 
(pentaerythritol tetranitrate). Linear cutting charges are 
available in Ratings 1–25.
LIQUID EXPLOSIVES
Liquid explosives are frequently referred to as “liquid 
plastique.” Liquid explosives function identically to 
plastic explosives, except that liquid explosives can be 
poured in desired quantities (1 liter is the approximate 
equivalent of 1 kilogram of plastic explosive). Liquid 
explosives are available in Ratings 1–25 and are fre-
quently used with an atomizer to maximize damage 
(see p. 196).
NITROGLYCERIN
A very powerful explosive that has been around since 
1847, nitroglycerin is well known for its instability—it can 
detonate from mere jolts, let alone other explosions. Any 
time a character handles nitroglycerin, roll an Agility + Re-
action Test—a glitch means that the nitro detonated by 
accident (the only reason for the test is to see if there is a 
glitch; the number of hits does not matter). Transporting 
it in a vehicle requires the driver to make a Vehicle Test 
(p. 199, SR5), with a glitch setting it off. Have the pas-
sengers resist damage from the explosion before having 
the vehicle resist damage, subtracting any hits the pas-
sengers get on their Damage Resistance Tests. If anyone 
carrying nitroglycerin is knocked down, or if nitroglycerin 
is falls more than half a meter for any reason, the shock 
may make it detonate. Roll an Object Resistance dice pool 
of 8; on a glitch, the nitro accidentally detonates. Follow 
the same rules for a car explosion found under Car Bombs 
as Tools for Assassins (p. 187). Treat 1 liter of nitroglycerin 
as 1 kilogram of Rating 6 explosives.
TNT
The standard by which all other explosives are mea-
sured, trinitrotoluene has been used as an explosive 
compound for 200 years. TNT is highly regulated and 
hard to obtain legally without proper permits and li-
censes.
TNT is available in blocks of varying weight that can 
either be cut up when smaller amounts are needed or 
taped together for larger charges. Any kind of detonator 
can be used to set off TNT.
DETONATORS
Listed below are several detonator options. To simplify 
demolitions for Shadowrun players and gamemasters, a 
purchased detonator is always considered to come with 
the appropriate power supply or primer necessary to set 
off the explosive material in question. The power supply 
for a detonator only becomes an issue for detonators with 
specific ratings. Rating 1 detonators are the cheapest and 
are most likely to suffer from malfunctioning power sup-
plies, but Rating 2 detonators have been known to also 
fail. When dealing with a Rating 1 detonator, the game-
master rolls 1D6. On a roll of 1 or 2, the power supply is 
bad and will not initiate the explosive device. For a Rating 
2 device, the gamemaster rolls a 1D6, and the power sup-
ply only malfunctions on a result of 1. Rating 3 devices 
are well constructed, so failure rates for these devices are 
so rare as to not be an issue in game terms.
Redundant power supplies for detonators can be 
purchased and vary in price from 50 nuyen to 500 
nuyen. Adding redundant power supplies ensures that 
if one fails, the other will trigger the explosion, but this 
adds to the complexity of the device and thus requires 
more time to build.
BLASTING CAP
The most commonly used detonator in construction 
and demolitions work is the blasting cap. Blasting caps 
come in three different types: electric, non-electric, 
and fuse caps. Blasting caps are wired into a prima-
ry explosive material. Once ignited, this provides the 
energy necessary to set off the secondary explosives. 
Electric blasting caps are normally hardwired to an ex-
ploder, which produces the necessary electrical pulse 
that travels through wires from the exploder to set off 
the explosives from a safe distance. Fuse caps allow for 
a safety fuse to be ignited, to delay the explosion until 
the fire reaches the cap. Whereas detonator caps can 
be used to set off charges remotely with a self-con-
tained power supply or explosives, blasting caps have 
a manual component, either lighting a fuse or pushing 
the plunger on the exploder to set off the explosion. 
Because of this limitation, detonator caps are the pre-
ferred choice for detonation.
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
194    DETONATORS >>
===== PAGE 195 =====
Explosives used in blasting caps are considered 
primary explosives or primers, the most common being 
mercury fulminate, lead azide, lead styphnate, tetryl, 
and DDNP.
ELECTRICAL DETONATOR
This type of detonator sends an electrical charge to ex-
plosives sensitive to electricity and detonates them. It 
can create booby traps by being wired to things like a 
light switch, a trideo set, or a vehicle’s ignition. Electri-
cal detonators require a strong electrical pulse to func-
tion; this is sometimes supplied by a exploder, but it 
can also be supplied from a car battery, a wall socket, or 
a power supply designed to work with the detonator. 
The current provided by a normal battery, as used in 
electronic appliances, is not enough. Electrical detona-
tors are frequently used in dumb bombs.
OPTICAL DETONATOR
A more high-tech alternative to the electrical detonator, 
this detonator has a powerful processor that can inter -
pret data from outside sources, such as facial recognition 
programs or biometric nanoscanners, to obtain positive 
identification of a target. The processor inside an optical 
detonator is as powerful as one found in an average com-
mlink. Optical detonators must be attached to fiber-optic 
cables and can be planted in such things as cyberware, 
drones, computers, or commlinks. Runners who desire a 
smart bomb can use an optical detonator to greatly en-
hance their chances of hitting the right target.
When utilizing an optical detonator with accessories 
such as a camera or biometric nanoscanners, roll the Data 
Processing attribute of the optical detonator (Device 
Rating) against a threshold of 1. A successful roll means 
the device has correctly identified the target. A failed 
roll results in inconclusive findings and requires another 
test; the system requires 1 minute before another 
identification attempt can be made. If the test results in 
a glitch or critical glitch, the device improperly identifies 
someone else as the target and detonates, likely killing 
the wrong target, or it does not recognize the right 
target and does not detonate. Optical detonators have 
a Device Rating from 1 to 6.
Any explosive device using an optical detonator is 
considered a complex device.
PULL DETONATOR
Pull detonators trigger explosives when a ring on the 
detonator is pulled out; a string or wire can be tied to the 
ring to either set up a tripwire or connect it to a nearby 
object. For example, a pull detonator can be set off when 
a door opens to pull the ring out of the detonator.
Pull detonators can also be set in a “pull release” 
mode. In this case, the detonator is set up with a constant 
pull on the ring, usually from a taut tripwire. When the 
ring is pulled out, the detonator goes off as usual, but 
it will also detonate when the resistance is taken off the 
ring. This prevents someone from disarming the booby 
trap by simply cutting the wire, as doing so triggers an 
immediate explosion. To disarm the explosive device 
without setting it off, a character will need to make a 
Demolitions + Logic [Mental] (5) Test.
PUSH DETONATOR
One of the most notorious booby traps, push detonators 
set off their explosives when the trigger is pushed with 
a specific amount of force. The character setting the det-
onator can choose the minimum amount of pressure in 
kilograms that must be exerted on the detonator before 
it goes off. For example, if used in a car bomb, one of the 
target’s young children sitting in the driver seat won’t set 
off the explosives underneath the seat. However, once 
the target gets behind the wheel, the bomb will explode. 
Push detonators can be set up with a minimum and 
maximum weight that will set off the explosive.
A push detonator may also be set up so that once a 
target steps or sits on the detonator, it will not trigger 
until the pressure is removed.
RADIO DETONATOR
One of the most common detonator types in both mili-
tary and civilian demolitions, a radio detonator sets off 
the explosive charge when it receives the correct radio 
signal. Modern radio detonators are wireless-enabled 
devices detonated by commlinks.
Radio detonators come in three ratings. Rating 1 
radio detonators are the cheapest but also possess the 
weakest receivers and have the greatest chance of not 
receiving a signal, particularly in a building that has not 
been properly prepped for demolition. Increase the 
Noise Level by 2 when using a Rating 1 radio detonator. 
Rating 2 radio detonators are stronger and more reliable 
but are still sensitive to noise. Increase the Noise Level 
by 1 when using a Rating 2 radio detonator. Rating 3 
radio detonators are the most reliable on the market and 
decrease Noise Level by 1.
Disposable commlinks can be set up as makeshift 
radio detonators. The commlink can be programmed 
to accept only one number of the demolition expert’s 
choosing. Turning a commlink into a radio detonator 
requires two tests: a Hardware + Logic [Mental] (4) Test 
and a Demolitions + Logic [Mental] (3) Test. A commlink 
rigged in this manner has a Rating equal to its Device 
Rating, to a maximum of 3.Commlinks set up as radio 
detonators are always set to run silent (p. 235, SR5) to 
diminish the chances of being discovered.
TIMER DETONATOR
A timer detonator is an electronic or mechanical clock 
that sets off the explosives. It can be used to either det-
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
<< DETONATORS    195
===== PAGE 196 =====
onate at a specific time or count down from the desired 
delay. Timer detonators come in three ratings. Rating 
1 is the cheapest timer detonator available, but the 
cheaply made device has a high rate of failure and is 
known for losing or gaining time. Rating 1 timer deto-
nators can lose or gain up to 2 minutes, (assuming the 
device works at all). Rating 2 timer detonators can lose 
or gain up to 1 minute, while Rating 3 timer detonators 
keep exact time and are considered the most reliable 
detonators.
Commlinks can be set up to act as improvised 
timer detonators. All commlinks have clock and timer 
programs loaded onto them. Turning a commlink 
into a makeshift timer detonator requires two tests: a 
Hardware + Logic [Mental] (3) Test and a Demolitions 
+ Logic [Mental] (3) Test. Assume a commlink rigged 
in this manner has a Rating of 3, as long as it has an 
active Matrix connection. Without that connection, it 
drops to Rating 1. Commlinks set up as timer detonators 
are always set to run silent (p. 235, SR5) to help avoid 
detection.
Timer detonators have the option of featuring a 
display showing the countdown. Oftentimes they do 
not come with this feature, but commlinks modified as a 
timer detonator always display the time. A bomb maker 
will often set up decoy timer detonators and have each 
of them display different countdowns, forcing anyone 
trying to disarm the bomb to guess which time is the 
right one (if any).
EXPLOSIVE 
ACCESSORIES
ANTI-REMOVAL 
MODIFICATIONS
Many bomb makers like to make their devices compli-
cated so they are more difficult for someone to disarm 
before they go off. Common anti-removal modification 
tricks include the following: multiple detonators as fail-
safes, multiple blast machines/power supplies, wires 
that are all the same color, false wires and leads, metal 
sheaths to prevent a bomb expert from accessing the 
detonator, fake time displays, and a mixture of different 
detonator types.
For each modification designed to prevent tampering, 
the device gains 1 die to resist being disarmed; 
maximum rating of this dice pool is 12. The character 
attempting to disarm the bomb rolls a Demolitions + 
Logic Opposed Test versus the bomb’s dice pool. If the 
character succeeds, the bomb is disarmed. However, 
if the bomb gets more hits, the explosive detonates. 
Alternatively, the gamemaster may choose to have 
the character roll an Opposed Test versus the bomb’s 
dice pool, with each successful test disarming one of 
the anti-removal devices and removing 1 die from the 
dice pool. The character must then continue to disarm 
each anti-removal modification, removing 1 die from 
the pool each time. When the bomb has no dice left in 
its anti-removal modification dice pool, the device is 
considered disarmed.
ATOMIZER
Similar to bottles that spray water or perfume, an atom-
izer works on a larger scale to quickly spray a cloud of 
liquid explosives. The atomizer can hold a number of 
liters equal to its rating, and this liquid can be sprayed 
at a rate of 1 liter per Complex Action, each liter being 
roughly equivalent to 1 kilogram of plastic explosive. 
Each liter fills one cubic meter when properly atomized, 
and the explosive will settle to the ground in about 1 
minute. The liquid explosive must still be present in the 
air to be ignited by a detonator.
The advantage of atomization is that the Damage 
Value is the same throughout the cloud; the Blast Rating 
(for circular blasts) is only applied outside of the cloud.
EXPLODER
An exploder is a handheld device that provides an 
electrical pulse needed to set off an electrical or opti-
cal detonator (p. 195). Electrical and optical detonators 
need compatible exploders to work, so an exploder of 
one kind cannot activate the other type of detonator. 
Exploders are only necessary for devices that are wired 
together and require a manual detonation, usually with 
blasting caps and detonating cord. Many remote deto-
nators feature their own power supply, making an ex-
ploder unnecessary.
A number of circuits equal to the exploder’s rating 
can be connected to it at a time. These circuits can be 
set off simultaneously, or a user can vary the detonating 
times between the different circuits, creating the desired 
blast pattern. However, all charges wired on the same 
circuit will detonate simultaneously. An exploder can set 
off a number of detonators up to its Rating x 4 at the 
same time.
Operating an exploder requires a Complex Action, 
regardless of the number of circuits being detonated.
HARD-SHELL BRIEFCASE 
(HERMETICALLY SEALED)
A hard-shell briefcase can be hermetically sealed to al-
low for easier transportation of explosive material and 
provide a convenient way of smuggling explosives into 
a secure building without setting off chemsniffers. The 
Rating of the briefcase provides a negative dice pool 
modifier to any chemsniffer/olfactory sensors trying to 
detect the explosive material. For example, a hermeti-
cally sealed Rating 3 briefcase removes 3 dice from the 
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
196    EXPLOSIVE ACCESSORIES >>
===== PAGE 197 =====
sensor’s dice pool for detecting the explosives. Her -
metically sealed hard-shell briefcases come in Ratings 
1 to 12.
SAFETY FUSE
A safety fuse is a length of waterproof cord that burns 
at a rate of 1 centimeter per second (3 centimeters per 
Combat Turn), allowing it to be used as a cheap and 
simple delay by inserting it into a blasting cap. It can 
be lit with a cigarette lighter or a similar flame source.
 
GEAR QUALITIES
COUNTERFEIT 
(FUNCTIONAL AND NON-FUNCTIONAL)
On the black market, not everything for sale is the gen-
uine article. Cheap knockoff guns are frequently mod-
ified to look like Ares Predators or Colt Manhunters 
and passed off as such to unsuspecting buyers. Device 
Rating 6 cyberdeck cases are often sold as Device Rat-
ing 6 cyberdecks despite having Rating 1 components 
inside. Counterfeit BTLs and simsense recordings have 
a poorer quality than the original. Modeling clay mas-
querades as blocks of plastic explosive. 
Characters conned into buying Counterfeit 
merchandise that is functional get a working product, 
albeit at a reduced Rating. Device Rating and Accuracy 
can be reduced by as much as 5 (to a minimum of 1). 
Explosives can either have their desired Ratings reduced 
by 5 or the number of kilograms purchased reduced 
by half, replaced by modeling clay or other fraudulent 
product. Homemade explosives may be packaged as 
commercial-grade explosives; in this case, follow the 
rules for modifying homemade explosives on the black 
market. Armor may have been repaired to be sold as 
new, with its Armor Rating reduced by as much as 5. 
Functional Counterfeit products also have a nasty track 
record of breaking. Functional Counterfeit gear provides 
a challenge for players, and if they survive they should 
be rewarded. If a functional Counterfeit is purchased 
by a character and that gear then becomes an in-game 
complication for the character, the gamemaster should 
give the character who owns it 1 extra point of Karma at 
then end of the current mission.
Non-functional Counterfeit goods do not work at all. 
For example, the firing mechanism of the gun is broken 
or missing; cyberware components in a shiny new 
shell are broken and burned out; explosives are either 
entirely phony product or the mixture of compounds is 
so bad that it simply won’t detonate. A character who 
inadvertently receives a non-functional Counterfeit 
piece of gear in an adventure and survives complications 
from the gear receives 2 Karma at the end of the game 
session.
DEFECTIVE
Even when an item is brand new, that does not guar -
antee that it is without defect. Defects in materials, 
assembly line errors, and even successful shadowruns 
can negatively impact item quality, rendering it defec-
tive. It’s common for black marketeers to sell products 
that were recalled or disposed of by the manufacturer 
(due to concerns over a potentially defective batch), 
meaning said products might end up in the hands of 
runners and fixers. Even if the piece of gear functions 
when it is sold, it may suddenly stop working at an in-
convenient time. The Defective quality often strikes 
power supplies in electronics, from commlinks and 
cyberdecks to electronic timers and batteries. Game-
masters can secretly assign this quality to a piece of 
gear to add a twist to the mission, but players should 
be rewarded for dealing with it. If a character received 
a Defective piece of gear that failed in the course of 
the mission, and they manage to survive, they should 
receive 1 extra point of Karma at the end of the run.
HOT
On the black market, some items are ridiculously dis-
counted, sometimes by as much as fifty percent or 
more. The reason? The fences have to get rid of the 
product fast, and any nuyen they can get, even if they 
take a loss, is better than simply ditching the goods 
altogether. Guns sold this way typically can be tied to 
crimes through ballistic forensics. Get caught with a 
gun connected to a high-profile homicide, and you are 
in deep drek, chummer. Oftentimes hot products still 
have serial numbers on them, and in some rare cases, 
their RFID tags are still active. Stolen delta-grade cy -
berware and bioware are always considered Hot. So are 
vehicles and explosives. Common items such as low-
end cyberdecks and commlinks worth less than 1,000 
nuyen are not given this quality unless they are sold 
in large quantities (usually more than what one runner 
would ever think of buying). The gamemaster should 
only consider giving this quality to an item she fully in-
tends to cause a runner problems during the game.
>> BLOW UP GOOD <<
OPTIONAL RULES
SUPPLEMENTAL DETECTION MODIFIERS  
FOR THE CHEMICAL DETECTION MODIFIERS TABLE
In Run & Gun, the rules for explosives have moved away 
from calculating explosives in grams. For the sake of simplicity, 
all amounts are calculated in kilograms. To reflect this change, 
the gamemaster may choose to modify the values on the 
Chemical Detection Modifiers Table on p. 365, SR5, as follows:
MATERIAL MODIFIER
Every 1 kilogram of (non-plastique) explosive +1
Every 2 kilograms of plastique explosive +1
<< GEAR QUALITIES    197
===== PAGE 198 =====
 “—I told you we shoulda gone with them!”
My indignant shout was drowned out by two very loud nois-
es; the sharp BANG! of my high-ex grenade detonating, which 
temporarily muffled the dull KRUMPFS! from Megazard’s mas-
sive Krime Cannon as he laid down suppressive fire.
“Stay with me ’til we hit the door, Azimuth!” the enormous 
troll shouted.
“Like I got a choice?!”
All this happened as we charged straight at the latest cluster 
of sec men spilling out of a nondescript, white, ten-story build-
ing twenty-five meters away. In their matching corp body armor 
and helmets, they looked like angry, grey-clad ants.
My mystic armor took a few hits as two opened fire with 
their Ares assault rifles. Correction: heavily armed and seriously 
pissed-off ants.
Still, we barreled forward. I launched another aerodynamic 
grenade as I ran, dropping it exactly where I wanted: behind a 
huge plascrete garden container near the front of the building. 
It held several artfully sculpted evergreen trees providing cover 
for three rent-a-cops.
The grenade fell out of sight, and the sharp report that fol-
lowed sprayed pine needles, branches, and sec guard bodies ev-
erywhere. We both clomped into the cloud of smoke laid down 
by our chosen weapons, taking advantage of the temporary 
cover as we reloaded. I plucked two more grenades off my belt 
while Megazard slapped another circular magazine into the ev-
er-hungry maw of his assault cannon. And all the while, we kept 
running toward the building.
You got it, chummer—we were heading in, not out.
It was not one of my better runs—or days, for that matter. 
But an empty credstick and looming rent, not to mention a 
constantly growling stomach, makes for one hungry dwarf—in 
more ways than one. So, when my supposed friend Megazard 
pinged me about what sounded like a simple cover-and-carry 
mission, I didn’t look too closely at the particulars.
Big mistake.
The leaders of the team—a couple run-and-gun studs who’d 
been sleazing the Seattle shadows for all of six months—were 
cocky even at the initial meet. But their money was good—and 
real—for what was supposed to be an easy job: overwatch on 
the street while they swapped places with a maintenance crew 
and infiltrated during the end-of-day shift change. One false fire 
alarm later, and they would get whatever they’d come to get 
and scoot. If anything went bad, that’s where we came in, guns 
and grens booming, to extract them.
And of course, somebody tripped something, leading us 
to make our spectacular entrance. The target was some off-
the-main-drag corp building in Ravenna, so I’d packed fairly 
HOSTILE  
EXTRACTION
198    HOSTILE EXTRACTION
