==== 102 ====
SLICING THE PIE
Successes required: varies
Description: Technically not a combat maneuver be-
cause itÆs normally used before combat begins, Slicing 
the Pie (also known as Cutting the Cake) is a maneuver 
thatÆs been used by Law Enforcement/Security officers 
for decades and has become popular with military units 
engaged in urban warfare. Used during building search-
es, this maneuver is designed to look around corners 
into open hallways, through open doors into rooms, or 
around tall obstacles. Using a corner/wall/edge as cover, 
the searcher moves in a lateral or semi-circular pattern 
(with weapon up and ready) behind cover. This is done 
until they can visually identify the target/subject of their 
search. If done correctly, the searcher will only minimal-
ly expose themselves and then can take whatever action 
they deem necessary. The searcher may carry over the 
gained bonuses from this from Combat Turn to Combat 
Turn as long as they donÆt move and other combatants 
stay in the same general area where they were first seen. 
Benefits: Defensive bonus to the searcher only 
based on number of successes when performing the 
maneuver. Maneuver fails if no successes are rolled, giv-
ing the searcher no bonuses or penalties. A glitch gives 
the searcher a û2 defensive penalty, while a critical glitch 
means they are seen by the enemy, who moves on them 
to force them from their position.
TRAVELING OVERWATCH
Successes Required: 2
Description: Similar to Bounding Overwatch, Trav-
eling Overwatch is a preventative maneuver. ItÆs meant 
to be used when speed is essential and best intel indi-
cates contact with an enemy is unlikely. When the team 
is in motion, oneùor preferably twoùmembers take a 
trailing position and periodically stop to carefully survey 
their surroundings. If the main body of the unit is at-
tacked, the overwatch pair can respond with either long 
range-support or engage in a flanking maneuver. In us-
ing this tactic, a drone or spirit will either complement or 
replace a team member in the rear overwatch position. 
The drawback to this tactic is that the rear overwatch has 
a chance of being separated from the main group or be-
ing eliminate

==== 103 ====
PERISCOPE CAM
An inexpensive, hand-held sensor package used to 
look around corners or over top of obstacles. Image 
link is standard and it comes with limited upgrading 
capabilities. It can be accessed wirelessly or viewed di-
rectly through a small viewfinder at the base. 
CAPACITY
AVAIL
COST
1-3
10R
Capacity x 600Ñ
BATTERING RAMS
Sometimes, when a maglock pass key or a lock pick 
just canÆt get the job done, a more robust method be-
comes necessary. Popular with entry teams, battering 
rams range from hunks of metal to high-tech wireless 
devices. Battering rams are not recommended for use 
as a melee weapon but can be used as such (use Ex-
otic Melee Weapon (Battering Rams) skill, assuming 
you had the foresight to select it). Battering rams use 
Strength + Agility for the attack test (see Destroying 
Barriers, p.197, SR5).
Standard Ram: A metal tube weighing approximately 
20 kilograms with a blunted end and handles along the 
sides, this is a no-frills entry tool that relies on the userÆs 
Strength for breaching. The standard ram is normally 
used by one individual, but heavier versions are available 
and can be used by two average humans.
ACC
REACH
DAM
AP
AVAIL
COST
4
ù
(STR+2)P
û1
10R
2,000Ñ
Fluid-Motion Ram: The same as the standard 
battering ram, but it includes an internal ten-liter liquid 
reservoir. When used, the ram is swung backwards and 
then forward to strike the target. On impact the internal 
fluid in the ram creates extra momentum that increases 
the impact damage. Very useful against more durable 
doors, but using it requires two average-size humans or 
one average-size troll.
ACC
REACH
DAM
AP
AVAIL
COST
5
1
(STR*+3)P
û1
10R
3,500Ñ
*Strength Rating to be used is 
(combined Strength of all users) / (number of users)
>> TACTICS & TOOLS <<
<< the Tools of the Trade    103


==== 104 ====
Pneumatic Ram: Also known as the P-Ram, a 
pneumatic ramÆs breaching power comes from a large, 
battery-powered pneumatic piston. A P-Ram is too 
large and heave to be swung. The quad-legged device 
is securely positioned at the door or barrier before 
operation and triggered by a touch pad or wirelessly. Its 
power comes at the expense of mobility; it requires a 
four-person team of average humans to deploy. 
ACC
REACH
DAM
AP
AVAIL
COST
6
ù
16P
û4
18R
10,000Ñ
Shock Ram: Users call it the Shock Knocker. ItÆs 
a shock ram is designed to disable electronic locks 
or defenses when it breaches a door or barrier. Four 
large conductive spikes protrude from the ramÆs head 
that penetrates the barrier to deliver the charge. A 
metahuman in contact with the barrier or the spikes must 
resist shock damage per normal rules. Shock rams can 
be wirelessly discharged. Though an effective breaching 
tool, a shock ram requires frequent maintenance and 
constant monitoring, as repeated use can damage the 
mechanism and insulating protective casing. A glitch on 
a use test results in the batteries failing; a critical glitch 
results in a shock to the operator. 
ACC
REACH
DAM
AP
AVAIL
COST
4
1
(STR+2)P 
+ 12(e)
û3
10R
15,000Ñ
BLAST SHIELD
The blast shield is a two meter by one meter vari-
able-geometry shaped charge consisting of thermite 
strips and several high-explosive devices. Handle 
straps in the center allow it to be carried and used like 
a shield until itÆs deployed. Adhesives or magnets can 
secure the blast shield to any surface. The charge can 
be detonated with a timer or remotely. To use as a me-
lee weapon, wielders must have Exotic Weapon (Blast 
Shield) skill; the accuracy rating of the item is 4. 
DAM
AP
BLAST
AP
AVAIL
COST
20P
ù
Target
û4
8R
20,000Ñ
ARES PED (PERSONAL  
EXTRICATION DEVICE) MARK III
Originally called the ôbody bag,ö the PED is a means 
to transport unconscious or immobile individuals thatÆs 
marketed to the general public as a lifesaving device. 
Essentially a flexible bag of woven Kevlar, the PED of-
fers protection roughly equivalent to medium armors, 
and it is available in sizes to fit all metatypes. The PED 
can form an airtight seal and s

==== 105 ====
or another have been around for decades. However all 
previous ænets were add-ons that linked sensors and other 
components that werenÆt necessarily compatible, result-
ing in a complex mash of patches subject to malfunctions. 
PI-Tacs are self-contained, plug-in units designed from 
the group up to integrate with a commlink, cyberdeck, 
or rigger command console to form a shared PAN/WAN. 
PI-Tac enhances team coordination and effectiveness 
with streamlined simplicity and comes in three levels of 
sophistication. Strictly speaking, only the most basic level 
is legally available for civilian use. The benefits of using PI-
Tac are substantial, but gamemasters should remember 
that PI-Tac is wireless by nature, which makes it a target 
for hackers. All PI-Tac models include: 
ò	
Real-time GPS location software
ò	
Universal image and audio link that can access any 
image sources from within the network, including 
all external sensors and personal augmentations
ò	
Team Biomonitor
ò	
Weapon status indicator (ammo count, opera-
tional condition, possible incursion)
ò	
ôEnhanced Situational Awarenessö (bonus to all 
Perception Tests, based on level)
Note that the maximum number of team members (includ-
ing drones) on a particular Ænet at one time equals DR x 1.5.
LEVEL I
The basic, civilian Level PI-Tac is popular with the ex-
treme-sport set including combat re-enactors or ama-
teur urban/combat brawl leagues and even big/game 
hunters. While the Level I comes with only the basic 
functions, it provides users with a +1 to all Perception 
Tests, including audio and visual. 
MODEL
DR
AVAIL
COST
Renraku Taka
4
12R
115,000Ñ
LEVEL II
The Level II is intended for use by security, law en-
forcement, and/or standard military forces. Unit cost 
makes use of the Level II for routine security and law 
enforcement impractical. Thus the Level IIs are usually 
assigned only to special tactical response units. Level 
II includes the basic functions of Level I, with upgrades 
and additions as follows: 
ò	
Host unit enhancement. One half the device 
rating can be used to enhance either the firewall 
or processing ratings of the host device. 
ò	
Trauma module. Worn on the chest under

