==== PDF 366 ====
COUNTERING 
MAGIC THREATS
Magic in the Sixth World is both very powerful and very 
rare. Even those with magical talent often do not have 
enough to do any kind of magic that would be mean-
ingful from a security standpoint. As such, acquiring 
any sort of magical security is fairly expensive. How-
ever, magic and magical threats have been a part of 
the world for long enough that corporations and other 
potential targets of magical threats have developed a 
series of strategies for dealing with them.
TACTICS FOR MUNDANES
The first and most cost-effective tactic for dealing with 
magical threats is to provide special training for mun-
dane (non-magical) security forces to deal with mag-
ical threats. Although the only direct counter to mag-
ic is more magic, there are things that mundanes can 
do that will eliminate and sometimes inhibit magical 
threats. These tactics will be the first thing that security 
forces employ when faced with a magical threat.
Before anything can be done, a magical threat must 
be identified. If a front-line security guard has received 
any kind of professional training, they will have been 
taught how to identify a variety of magical threats: 
metahuman magicians, critters, and spirits, among oth-
ers. If magical activity is identified in an opposing force 
(see Perceiving Magic, p. 280), the security guards im-
mediately act to counter it.
Once identified, one way to deal with the threat is by 
target priority. There are many elaborate and compli-
cated ways to deal with an opposing magician, but the 
simplest (and often most effective) is to fill the enemy 
magician with bullets. This is where the common street 
saying “geek the mage first” comes from. When an op-
posing security force identifies a magician opponent, 
they will likely target the magician first or with their most 
effective weapons. Even wounding an enemy magician 
without actually putting them down affects how well they 
can cast spells. Of course, taking down an enemy magi-
cian solves the magical threat problem completely. This 
technique will be favored if the security team sees or feels 
that they have an advantage in physical firepower over 
the runner team. Target priority can and will be combined 
with other physical combat techniques such as ambushes 
(see Countering Physical Threats, above).
When force is not adequate (or available), limiting 
visibility can be just as effective. Magic is (almost) en-
tirely dependent on what the magician can see. If a ma-
gician can’t see something, they can’t cast a spell against 
it. Anything a security force does to limit a magician’s 
ability to see them will inhibit their ability to use mag-
ic against them. Security forces can limit visibility in a 
variety of ways: cover, flash bangs, smoke, or changing 
lighting conditions. However, limiting visibility is purely 
a defensive tactic and will be used in combination with 
the security team withdrawing to give time for on-call 
magical backup, or to change the location of the en-
gagement to somewhere more favorable for the secu-
rity team.
CONTRACTED  
MAGICAL SECURITY
Contracting magical security does have its drawbacks. 
Most organizations will not be able to afford to have 
Awakened security personnel on site 24/7, so magical 
security will often be in the form of a contracted “on 
call” operative or force. When a magical threat is iden-
tified, the magic backup is called into action. The first 
response of a magical security contractor is usually to 
scout and confirm the magical threat astrally. If a mag-
ical threat is confirmed, the astrally scouting magician 
may summon a spirit (or call a bound spirit) to assist im-
mediately, if that level of service has been purchased. 
Depending on the contract, the magician may stay and 
observe the situation astrally, assisting however they 
can, or return to their meat body to respond to the 
threat physically. Often the magical backup will arrive 
as part of a High Threat Response team, but sometimes 
the magic backup will come just to aid the existing se-
curity force. The details of the arrangement between 
the front-line security forces and the magical contrac-
tor are up to the gamemaster.
MAGICAL BARRIERS
An extremely cost-effective method of magical protec-
tion is the use of magical barriers. Any company that of-
fers magical contracting services will provide an option 
to establish magical barriers as part of their services. 
Barriers can be established in the astral plane to pro-
tect sensitive areas from observation by astral entities 
(such as an astrally projecting magician), or they can 
be established on the physical plane at critical areas to 
add protection to those on the other side of the barri-
er. Magical barriers are a passive measure, and organi-
zations will use them knowing that they will only slow 
down magical intruders, at best, but they are inexpen-
sive as magical protections go. Being one of the most 
basic services that magical contractors provide, com-
petition has driven the price of magical barriers down 
to the point that nearly any corporation or organization 
will be able to afford them. In addition to creating and 
renewing them if necessary, the magician that created 
the barrier will know when it has been breached, at-
tacked, or destroyed and will inform whoever is to be 
contacted in the protected organization.
CRITTERS AND SPIRITS
Metahumans are not the only, and often not even the 
most effective, basis for magical security. While the 
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
<< Security in the Sixth World    361

==== PDF 367 ====
ability to manipulate or even perceive the astral realm 
is extremely rare to metahumanity, awakened critters 
and spirits exist there as a natural state. For this reason 
they make ideal security forces, if they can be trained 
to perform the job.
Spirits (see p. 303) are fairly easy to employ for 
security. They merely need to be summoned and set 
the Task of protecting an area in some way. When em-
ployed in a security role, due to the long time frames 
involved, spirits are almost always bound. To set a spirit 
in a security role, it must be given a task that uses one 
of its services. Spirits are characteristically ornery and 
narrow-minded, especially when bound to long-term 
service, so the instructions given for the security ser-
vice must be simple yet specific. A spirit could be used 
to report astral activity in the area, attack anyone in 
the restricted area during unauthorized hours, or other 
tasks with specific parameters and goals. The exact na-
ture of the service that a bound spirit is performing is 
up to the gamemaster.
Awakened Critters are employed in a security role 
for most of the same reasons as spirits. Critters have 
advantages and disadvantages over spirits in the same 
role. Critters are more permanent than spirits, in that 
once they are trained and deployed, they will remain 
and do not have 
a limited resource 
such as Services. 
However, 
critters 
take far longer to 
get to the point 
where they can be 
used in a securi-
ty role, requiring a 
lengthy (and often 
expensive) training 
process. As such, 
the cost to employ 
Awakened 
critters 
or bound spirits in a 
security role is generally equivalent, so it would be up 
to the whims of the security forces (and the gamemas-
ter) which creature is employed. Awakened critters are 
used because they can perceive astral space as well as 
physical space, making identifying astral entities trivi-
al for them. Additionally, like spirits, they can engage 
astral entities in combat, which makes them a signif-
icant threat. Depending on the critter, they can bring 
additional exotic powers that perform a lot of the same 
roles within a security team as a magician, such as a 
barghest’s paralyzing howl. Even though critters re-
quire maintenance and specialized handling, and they 
can sometimes be unpredictable, the advantages they 
provide for mundane security forces against magical 
threats makes them extremely valuable.
DRONES
Since magic first returned and ushered in the Sixth 
World, it has been connected with living things. Magic 
has always flowed more readily in the living and been 
inhibited by the mechanical or highly processed. Only 
the most powerful and talented magicians can affect 
highly processed mechanical objects, and even then 
at significant cost to themselves. For these reasons, 
drones have become an effective counter to magical 
threats. Since drones are highly processed, unnatu-
ral, mechanical objects, they inherently resist magical 
effects. They are immune to spells that target pure-
ly organic or sentient beings and are well armed and 
armored to deal with physical spells. They also pack 
a significant threat in firepower. Drones are manufac-
tured on a mass scale and are very cost effective to 
employ in any security role. This makes them extreme-
ly popular and a particularly good counter to magical 
threats. It is drones’ weakness to other kinds of attacks 
(such as hacking), however, that keep them from being 
the overwhelmingly most popular choice.
SECURITY DEVICES
LANDSCAPING
Landscaping, sometimes an overlooked component 
of physical security, can help provide obstacles or 
barriers. This includes everything from the placement 
of trees and shrubs to working with the surrounding 
land or creating hills, gullies, and lakes. The idea is to 
make it difficult for unauthorized personnel to enter 
the grounds without being spotted, trapped, inter-
cepted, or maybe even killed. Landscaping may also 
be designed to prevent an intruder (or protected per-
sonnel) from escaping easily, so that security person-
nel can easily catch and detain them if alerted to their 
presence. Trees, dense brush, and hedges can provide 
cover for sensors, wires, cameras, tiger pits, secret en-
trances or exits, or automated gun systems. Along with 
ponds and lakes, they can also provide natural barri-
ers. These features are not usually planted adjacent to 
buildings themselves, so as not to provide cover or en-
try assistance for intruders (such as a tall tree allowing 
for entry into a second- or third-story window). Dense 
brush and ground cover are also difficult for an intruder 
to bypass without creating noise (apply an appropriate 
modifier to a character’s Infiltration Tests) and may be 
coupled with acoustic sensors. Foliage also increases 
Noise (p. 230) for anyone trying to access wireless de-
vices on the other side of the landscaping. 
BARRIERS
Barriers include fences, walls, and other obstructions 
that serve as a deterrent to keep people and animals 
out, prevent intruders from escaping, or deter surveil-
SECURITY CRITTER 
REFERENCES
CRITTER
PAGE
Barghest
403
Basilisk
403
Hellhound
405
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
362    Security in the Sixth World >>

==== PDF 368 ====
lance or terrorist attacks (like car bombs). These can be 
strewn about the perimeter, set along restricted road-
ways, or integrated into a building’s internal or outer 
security. They may be supplemented with various sen-
sors, cameras, gun turrets, or scanners (see below). 
Rules for climbing over barriers can be found on p. 134. 
Wooden, stone, chain-link, and electrified fences 
are most likely set around the perimeter and may fea-
ture barbed wire, concertina wire, or even monowire 
along the top. Climbing past fencetop wiring requires a 
Climbing + Agility (3) Test; if the character fails, she takes 
damage. See the Fencing Table for the thresholds need-
ed to spot an electrified fence (as opposed to a regular 
fence) or monowire with a Perception Test, as well as the 
damages these defensive features can cause to some-
one who fails to bypass them. Damage is resisted with 
Body + Armor as per normal. Note that protective mats 
may be thrown over barbed/concertina wire or electric 
fencing to climb over them without damage.
Walls come in all sorts of compositions—usually brick, 
stone, plascrete, concrete, or drywall—and may be specif-
ically intended to protect against explosions or penetra-
tion. For details on attacking through or bypassing walls, 
see Barriers, p. 197. Plumbing, heating, ventilation, and 
air conditioning systems are often found within walls and 
can increase the wall’s Armor rating (p. 197).
DOORS, WINDOWS, & LOCKS
Doors and windows are common entrance and egress 
points not only for normal use but also for break-
ing-and-entering. Doors follow the standard rules for 
Barriers (p. 197) and are typically augmented with locks, 
alarms, and/or sensors (see below). Windows tend to 
be mirrored in 2075 (preventing an outside spellcaster 
from targeting anything inside), though their tinting is 
often voice- or wireless-controlled. Transparent con-
crete is also used, providing all the lighting of glass 
with the barrier value of a concrete wall.
Key locks are the simplest kind, involving the use 
of tumblers and metal keys or combination code dials 
to open doors instead of cards or some other device. 
They are also not in very common use due to reliance on 
more sophisticated means of security, but some places 
(like private safes or low-end businesses) may still use 
them out of nostalgia, because they can’t afford better, 
or because rarity equates to better security. Defeating a 
key lock requires a Locksmith + Agility [Physical] (Lock 
Rating, 1 Combat Turn) Extended Test. Autopickers (p. 
447) add their Rating in dice to this test; their Rating may 
also be used in place of Locksmith skill.
Transponder-embedded keys contain a calibrated 
resistor that completes a circuit in the lock. In order to 
pick such a lock by hand, an electronics kit is needed to 
generate the appropriate electrical characteristics. This 
requires a successful Hardware + Logic [Mental] (Lock 
Rating, 1 minute) Extended Test at the same time the lock 
is picked. If the same character is picking the lock and cal-
ibrating the electrical feed, apply a –2 dice pool modifier 
to both tests.
Powered magnetic locks, maglocks, are widespread 
in 2075 and come in a wide range of sophistication. Ma-
glock “keys” can be physical (keypad, swipe card, prox-
imity card, memory string), biometric (see below), or any 
combination thereof. Maglocks are often accessible via 
the local network (wired or wireless) and may be moni-
tored by a security hacker/rigger. Maglock systems of-
ten log all usages, keeping track of the time, date, and 
identity of each user. The first step to bypassing a ma-
glock is to remove the case and access the maglock’s 
electronic guts. This requires a successful Locksmith + 
Agility [Physical] (Maglock Rating x 2, 1 Combat Turn) 
Extended Test. If all else fails, the case can be smashed or 
shot off; treat the case as if it has a Barrier rating equal to 
the maglock rating. Overzealous attempts to break the 
case may harm the electronics inside. Re-assembling the 
case afterwards requires the same test. Some maglock 
systems come equipped with anti-tamper systems, rat-
ed between 1 and 4. In order to bypass the anti-tamper 
circuits, an additional Locksmith + Agility [Physical] (an-
ti-tamper system rating) Test must be made. If this fails, 
an alarm is triggered.
Keypads utilize an access code (often different 
access codes for different users). Unless the code is 
known, defeating a keypad requires rewiring the inter-
nal electronics. This means cracking open the case (see 
above) and then rewiring the circuits—another Lock-
smith + Agility [Physical] (Maglock Rating x 2, 1 Com-
bat Turn) Extended Test. A maglock sequencer (see p. 
448) may also be used instead; make an Opposed Test 
between the sequencer and maglock ratings. If the se-
quencer wins, the maglock opens. (Note that the case 
must still be opened for a sequencer to be applied.)
Cardreaders verify the authenticity of swipe cards 
or RFID proximity cards. They can be defeated using the 
same method as for keypads—by removing the case and 
tampering with the works. Maglock passkeys (p. 448) 
may also be used to defeat cardreaders and don’t re-
quire breaking the case open. If a valid keycard is ac-
quired, it can be copied with a keycard copier (p. 447) 
in order to create a forged keycard. Make an Opposed 
FENCING TABLE
DIFFICULTY
THRESHOLD
DAMAGE
Barbed
1
4P
Concertina
1
5P
Monowire
3
8P
Electrified
2
6S
(See Electricity Damage, p. 170)
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
<< Security in the Sixth World    363

==== PDF 369 ====
Test between the passkey/forged keycard rating and the 
maglock rating. If the passkey/forged keycard wins, the 
maglock opens.
Print scanners scan fingerprints, palm prints, retinal 
prints, or even the pattern of blood vessels in the face 
or palm. One method to defeat a print scanner is to co-
erce an authorized user to apply their prints. Alternately, 
a synthetic print glove-like membrane (a “sleeve”) can 
be manufactured for fingerprints and thumbprints with 
a cellular glove molder (an authorized print is necessary 
to copy from, see p. 447). Retinal prints may also be du-
plicated with the retinal duplication cybereye accessory 
(p. 453). If a fake print is used, make an Opposed Test 
between the duplicate and the maglock rating; if the 
fake wins, the maglock accepts it.
Voice recognition systems require a vocal response 
from an approved user’s voice, usually within a certain 
amount of time. If the response is not given within the 
time limit, or someone not approved answers, the sys-
tem sounds an alarm. Characters can only defeat voice 
recognition systems by “speaking” with the voice of an 
approved user—by using a recording, some other sim-
ulation, or the real voice. Voice modulator cyberware 
(see p. 452) can also be used. An Opposed Test must 
be made between the voice recognition system and 
the equipment used to bypass it; whichever generates 
more hits, wins.
Breath, cellular, and DNA scanners collect a sam-
ple of the user’s cells, either off the finger/palm, via hair 
suction, through exhaled particles, or something similar, 
and analyze the genetic material. In order to fool such a 
system, you need a sample of the correct genetic ma-
terial, preserved in a specially formulated enzyme bath. 
The enzyme bath can be synthesized in a chemistry 
shop with a Chemistry + Logic (5, 1 hour) Extended Test. 
Facial recognition scanners use imaging lasers, ther-
mographic, and/or ultrasonic waves to map a person’s 
face. These are one of the least intrusive, but also least 
accurate, biometric recognition systems. Facial recog-
nition systems are useful not just for letting authorized 
people in, but also for identifying unwanted people and 
keeping them out. Prosthetic makeup and biosculpt-
ing can be used with varying degrees of effectiveness 
against facial recognition; make an Opposed Test pitting 
Disguise + Intuition [Mental] against the Device rating. 
Apply a +2 dice pool modifier to the character if the sys-
tem is picking the disguised character out of a crowd.
SENSORS AND SCANNERS
Good lighting, both indoor and outdoor, can be a 
further deterrent to intrusion, as it raises the chances 
for security to spot unauthorized personnel. Lights 
are usually controlled via wireless to activate at pre-
determined times (like outdoor lights, which are only 
needed at night) or events (like when a sensor detects 
movement in its area; see Sensors below). Indoor light-
ing can either be manually controlled with a regular 
on/off switch, or programmed to respond to motion 
or daily activity (such as the start of the business day). 
Most switches can be subverted with a Hardware + 
Logic [Mental] (5, 1 Combat Turn) Extended Test. Most 
lighting is incandescent, fluorescent, LED, or white hal-
ogen quartz, though occasionally gas-discharge may 
be used for high-wattage exterior lighting (taking 5 
minutes to warm up).
Alarms, a form of passive security, are one of the 
most basic elements of a security system. Alarms serve 
to alert guards, security hackers/riggers, or remote moni-
toring services that something is amiss and must be dealt 
with. Alarms may be silent, alerting only the security or 
police in order to catch intruders unaware, or they may 
go off as flashing lights and loud warning klaxons that 
resound throughout the building. Individual components 
of a security system may be alarmed, like a fire door that 
triggers a warning bell when opened. Many alarms, par-
ticularly on doors and windows, are based on electrical 
circuits. While closed, the circuit is complete and no alarm 
will sound. If the door or window is opened, however, the 
circuit is broken, triggering the alarm. Windows may have 
alarm circuits wired into the glass, so if the glass is bro-
ken an alarm goes off. To bypass such alarms, the circuit’s 
electrical contacts must be fooled while the door/win-
dow is open. This requires a Hardware + Logic [Mental] 
(5, 1 minute) Extended Test, though depending on the 
design it may be more difficult.
A wire is one of the most basic types of securi-
ty scanners. Breaking the beam or wire is often tied to 
some sort of alarm system to notify security personnel, 
but can also trigger other kinds of automated security 
systems (see below). In some rare cases, the wire may 
have a more lethal purpose and is intended to harm the 
target. Stringing monowire across a potential intrusion 
point is a common choice for this purpose. If a character 
fails a Perception Test (p. 135) they will run into the wire 
and trigger its effect. This could be activating the alarm 
system, or taking damage. For wires intended to harm, 
use the damage listed in the Fencing Table (above).
Trip beams are used as perimeter alarms or across 
entrances. Trip beams consist of laser emitters (visible 
or infrared), mirrors, and laser detectors. If the beam of 
light is interrupted (by someone or something passing 
through it), the alarm goes off. These systems can be 
very complex and sometimes labyrinthine, requiring 
anywhere from several to twenty or more mirrors and 
reflectors in order to aim the light beam where desired. 
Noticing a trip beam requires a Perception + Intuition 
[Mental] (2) Test for visible beams, or a threshold of 3 
for infrared beams. Laser beams are more noticeable in 
smoke or if an aerosol spray is used, reducing the thresh-
old to 1. Squeezing past a trip beam maze requires an 
Escape Artist + Agility [Physical] Test against a game-
master-determined threshold. Trip beams may also be 
fooled by simultaneously lining up proxy laser emitters 
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
364    Security in the Sixth World >>

==== PDF 370 ====
of the proper wattage into each detector on the system, 
requiring a similar Escape Artist + Agility [Physical] Test. 
A calibrated system of mirrors may also be used to re-ar-
range the trip beam pattern so that someone can pass 
through.
Pressure pads complement any indoor security in 
areas that are restricted or off-limits to unauthorized 
personnel (particularly at night, when no one should be 
about). These are weight-triggered sensors that will re-
act to any amount of weight, or when there is too much 
weight beyond a pre-programmed amount (where the 
maximum allowable weight is five or ten pounds heavi-
er than the heaviest authorized individual). A pressure 
mesh works similarly, but is largely for outdoor use and 
installed in the ground, and is less sensitive than pads. 
Noticing pressure mesh or pads is very difficult, requir-
ing a Perception Test threshold of 3 for pads and 4 for 
mesh. If a character steps on a pad, however, it is more 
apparent (reduce the threshold by 2)—but by then it is 
usually too late. After a character steps onto the mesh 
or pad, however, a second Perception Test should be 
rolled: Threshold 1 for pads and Threshold 3 for mesh. 
If successful, the character can attempt to remove the 
pressure before it exceeds the device’s weight allow-
ance. This is very difficult, requiring a Reaction + Intu-
ition (3) Test, with the character’s Body serving as a neg-
ative dice pool modifier.
Motion sensors pick up on movement. They trans-
mit an ultrasonic field, and react to changes in that field 
when anything enters it. Intruders may detect the ul-
trasonic field by using an ultrasound sensor set to pas-
sive mode within 5 meters. Defeating a motion sensor 
requires that characters move very slowly through the 
field, one half-meter per Combat Turn, and succeed-
ing in an Sneaking + Agility [Physical] (3) Test. Twitchy, 
wired-up characters will find this very uncomfortable; 
apply a negative dice pool modifier equal to their extra 
Initiative Dice (that is, any dice beyond the first one).
Capacitance wire, or proximity wire, detects the 
electrical charge of a metahuman body (or animal) with-
in 2 meters. It is often used around a building’s perim-
eter fencing, on secure entranceways, or on special ob-
jects, and either triggers a regular alarm or switches on 
security cameras and other measures. For redundancy, it 
might be used in conjunction with motion sensors.
Sound detectors and vibration detectors utilize sen-
sitive microphones to pick up sounds/vibrations. They 
can be programmed with pattern recognition algorithms 
to ignore some sounds/vibrations, but will easily pick up 
everything else not fitting within those parameters. Char-
acters attempting to sneak by a known sound detector 
must succeed at an Infiltration + Agility [Physical] (3) Test 
(Silence or Stealth spells can also be used). Some sound 
detectors may be programmed to trigger an alert only 
when certain sounds are detected, such as gunshots (per-
haps even triangulating the sound’s origin with multiple 
detectors).
Security cameras fill a broad spectrum, from the 
standard visual type to low-light, infrared, and ultravi-
olet cameras or sensors. Cameras help security per-
sonnel maintain a secondary eye on every significant 
area of traffic when guards are patrolling, and maintain 
watch when personnel are not in physical or astral prox-
imity. Infrared, also known as thermographic, picks up 
on body heat signatures (but may be fooled with an 
Improved Invisibility spell). One security trick is to use 
surfaces that are reflective on the infrared spectrum on 
corner areas, so that thermographic cameras can detect 
intruders from around corners where the cameras them-
selves cannot be easily seen. Low-light sensors amplify 
the ambient light in order to produce an image in dark-
ened spots (making the camera harder to spot), but may 
be overpowered with bright light. Shadowrunners may 
take advantage of this with flash-bang grenades (p. 
435). How well any of these cameras or sensors may 
be spotted will depend partially on how well they are 
hidden. Typical cameras on fixed or pivoting mounts can 
be easily seen if characters are looking for them. Smaller 
micro-cameras have a threshold of 3 to be spotted with 
a Perception Test. If the camera is hidden, modify the 
Threshold to spot it per the Perception Thresholds Table 
(p. 136), applying any appropriate modifiers.
Olfactory scanners, also known as chemical detec-
tion systems or chemsniffers, analyze molecules in the 
air for nitrogen-rich particles like those given off by ex-
plosives or firearm ammunition. To detect explosives or 
ammunition, roll a dice pool equal to the chemsniffer’s 
rating against a threshold 2 (3 if the explosives/ammo 
are hermetically sealed). Apply modifiers as noted on the 
Chemical Detection Modifiers table.
Olfactory scanners can also be used as pheromone 
scanners to detect the pheromones that metahuman 
bodies release into the air. These are uncommon, but can 
be useful for detecting individuals who have otherwise 
effectively concealed themselves via technological or 
magical means from regular security devices. Pheromone 
scanners are sophisticated enough to tell the difference 
CHEMICAL DETECTION 
MODIFIERS TABLE
SITUATION
MODIFIER
Every 10 rounds of ammunition
+1
Every grenade
+1
Every 30 grams of (non-plastique) 
explosive
+1
Every 100 grams of plastique
+1
Item contained in plastic
–1
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
<< Security in the Sixth World    365

==== PDF 371 ====
between a metahuman and an animal and can also pin-
point gender, but are otherwise not advanced enough to 
single out an individual. In order to pick up a scent, the 
scanner rolls its Device Rating against a threshold of 3 (2 
for characters with tailored pheromone bioware).
Magnetic anomaly detectors (MADs) detect metallic 
substances for the purpose of finding concealed weap-
onry. Naturally, MADs do not work against non-metallic 
substances like wood, stone, or plastic. To determine if 
the detector finds a weapon, make a test using the de-
vice’s rating as the dice pool; a single hit detects any fer-
rous-metal weapons or objects (guns, knives, etc).
Millimeter wave detection systems, also known as 
cyberware scanners, process video taken in the milli-
meter wave spectrum to identify the energy signature of 
cyberware and concealed items (specifically weapons) 
on a person. These devices can “see through” thick lay-
ers of clothing and other concealment to identify items 
from a distance of fifteen meters away. To determine if 
the detector scans cyberware or a prohibited item, roll 
the Device Rating and compare the hits scored to the 
thresholds given on the Cyberware Scanner Table. Milli-
meter wave scans can detect any non-biological item by 
its shape and composition, assuming the item is listed 
in the device’s database. If the threshold is reached, the 
scanner detects the item/implant and notes its general 
locations and type; additional hits provide more detail 
(function, model, grade, etc.).
AUTOMATED DEFENSES
Automated gun systems are simply weapon-mounted 
drones placed in fixed locations (usually with a 180-de-
gree firing arc) or on slide-mounted track systems. 
These systems are typically loaded with basic sensors 
and Targeting autosofts and follow all the standard 
rules for drones (see p. 269).
Containment systems entail a kind of trap mecha-
nism: when an alarm is triggered, shutters drop down 
over windows, doors shut and lock, and sliding walls or 
gates may be activated. They may also include laser or 
monowire mazes and radio jamming. The objective is 
to detain intruders within a confined area, after which 
they may be either removed or “neutralized.”
Gas delivery systems can be insidious, dispersing 
gas in a potentially undetectable manner. Dispersal sys-
tems can fill an area of 30 cubic meters in one Combat 
Turn. The gamemaster determines how far and how 
quickly a gas spreads. The gamemaster may secretly 
conduct Perception Tests to see if any characters detect 
the gas, basing the threshold on how noticeable the gas 
is (many gases are colorless and odorless). Characters 
equipped with an olfactory scanner (see p. 452) may be 
alerted by their gear. See p. 408 for details on various 
gases and how they will affect characters.
Marking systems are designed to tag intruders with 
a discreet mark so that they can be identified later if cap-
tured. Marking methods include ultraviolet dye, RFID 
tags, DNA-encoded material, or even nanite tags. The 
markers are typically sprayed unobtrusively over exits 
and other traffic areas.
IDENTIFICATION
Your average Joe Wageslave in the Sixth World doesn’t 
give a second thought to their identity in the system. 
They get up in the morning, go to work, buy the gro-
ceries, pay the bills, and go to bed in their living space. 
They don’t think about who knows who they are, how 
much their employer controls them, who those bill pay-
ments are going to, how their commlink knows what 
groceries they need this week, and who knows where 
they live. Yes, Joe Wageslave is pretty oblivious to the 
system that surrounds everything they do. But anyone 
who chooses to live off the grid (like shadowrunners) 
are all too aware of how the system of identity works.
SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION 
NUMBER (SIN)
The foundation of an identity in the Sixth World is the 
System Identification Number (SIN). If someone wanted 
to divide the world into two groups of people, it could 
be done by saying there are those who have a SIN and 
those who don’t. That is, if you even consider the SIN-
less to be “people,” which some don’t. Modern society 
in 2075 produces a staggering amount of information 
every second of every day: where you are, what you 
buy, and what you do. With the system producing all of 
these pieces of information, there needs to be an easy 
way to store, track, and correlate it. All of that informa-
tion needs to be associated with a person somehow. 
That’s where the SIN comes in. A SIN is issued to a per-
son a birth, and stays with them (baring exceptional cir-
cumstances) for the rest of their life. A SIN identifies a 
CYBERWARE SCANNER TABLE
ITEM
THRESHOLD
Standard cyberware, weapons
1
Alphaware, other items
2
Betaware
3
Deltaware
5+
SITUATION
MODIFIER
2 or more implants/items
+1
4 or more implants/items
+2
6+ implants/items
+3
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
366    Identification >>

==== PDF 373 ====
the SIN number itself. Related information such as bio-
metric data will likely be missing or obviously false if 
checked (“Hey, this is the DNA of a chicken ...”). Other 
issues may be the consistency, or fit, of the identity to 
the individual. If a runner just needs an identity—any 
identity—right now, they may end up purchasing a SIN 
for a ten-year-old Nigerian girl. Higher Rating, and thus 
more expensive, fake SINs have been lovingly crafted 
over time with a great deal of attention to detail. An 
identity will be chosen that matches the age and na-
tionality of the person purchasing it, and it will have 
plausible supporting information such as travel and 
purchasing history. Biometric data associated with 
a high-Rating SIN will be from a real person with the 
same sex and nationality as the purchaser with (if the 
extra fee is paid) matching organic samples available 
(blood, skin cells, hair—just don’t ask where they came 
from). For availability and prices of purchasing Fake 
SINs, see p. 367.
CHECKING A FAKE SIN
While having some sort of SIN is mandatory for a 
person to interact in any way with the “civilized” (as 
they would put it) world, the level to which the SIN is 
checked and verified varies widely based on the situa-
tion and who is doing the checking. In game terms the 
sophistication of the system doing the checking and 
how much information it is able to verify is represented 
by its Rating. Less sophisticated units will perform only 
the most basic checks, while more sophisticated ones 
will perform a deeper analysis with cross-verification. 
In game terms, the gamemaster should make a Simple 
Device Rating x 2 Test with a threshold equal to the 
rating of the fake SIN (use Device Ratings, p. 234, for 
SIN verification system ratings). If the number of hits is 
under the threshold, the system reports no problem. If 
the threshold is reached but not exceeded, the system 
reports that something seems “odd” with the SIN and 
will recommend that the operator investigate further. 
Whether the operator actually does anything is up to 
them. If the threshold is exceeded, the system reports 
the SIN as false and may immediately notify the author-
ities. At this point, the fake SIN is considered burned.
BURNED SINS
When a fake SIN has been checked and found to be 
false, the SIN Verification System notes this immediate-
ly. If it is connected to the Matrix (and what isn’t these 
days), it reports the fake SIN, via a special emergency 
message, back to the SIN registry system of the coun-
try in which the verification takes place. Any further 
use of the fake SIN automatically fails. At this point, the 
runner or person using the fake SIN should abandon it 
for good. If that’s not an option, there is small chance 
that it can still be used. A SIN is only marked as burned 
instantly in the country where it was detected. Data 
sharing between countries is not always perfect or in-
stantaneous. At the gamemaster’s discretion, a SIN that 
has been burned in one country may not be burned in 
a different country.
DROP-IN 
LOCATIONS
More often than a gamemaster wants, characters will 
decide to go somewhere unexpected. This can leave 
the gamemaster in a bind, as they may have to create a 
detailed location on the fly. Even when they don’t have 
to improvise, gamemasters sometimes have trouble 
creating the amount of detail that may be required (or 
desired) for a location. What follows in this section are 
a series of generic drop-in locations that can be used in 
your Shadowrun game. They can be used as-is, or taken 
as a starting point and then modified to suit the specific 
needs of the game.
HELL-HOLE BAR
When living your life from day to day is a mighty strug-
gle, you can be sure that people are going to want a 
drink. The hell-hole bar is one of the only forms of orga-
nized business that a person is likely to find if they are 
wandering the Redmond Barrens, El Infierno, Aurora 
Warrens, or any other area of urban decay and aban-
donment. Getting a drink here can literally kill a person, 
felled either by the rough patrons of the bar or by the 
foul excuse for what they call liquor (brewed in some 
cobbled-together excuse for a still in the basement). 
However, since these areas almost never draw the eye 
of any law enforcement, or anyone with much self-re-
spect for that matter, they make an ideal location to 
make a deal or have a meeting, away from any notice. 
Security in these kinds of places is generally very light. 
SIN VERIFICATION DETAILS
RATING WHAT’S CHECKED
1
Do you have a SIN?
2
Basic redundancy check on the number and 
vital statistics
3
Redundancy check on number and statistics; 
query for external data attached to SIN
4
Verify all vital statistics; external data 
checked for obvious conflicts; biometric must 
be present
5
Full verification and consistency check; 
biometrics tested against sample
6
All possible verification; multiple biometric 
samples must match; random supporting 
data verified externally
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
368    Drop-In Locations >>

==== PDF 374 ====
The local gang might try to keep trouble away, or there 
might be a shotgun under the bar. Technology? Matrix 
access? Don’t hold your breath.
SECRET RESEARCH 
STATION
If anything in the Sixth World can be certain, it is the fact 
that large corporations are always up to something se-
cret. There are many reasons why a corporation might 
want to conduct research in a hidden or secret location, 
including keeping knowledge away from competitors, 
or keeping pesky governments with their “human rights 
laws” away from their exciting research. Underground 
or underwater secret research stations have been used 
numerous times over the years to house such projects. 
With the extremely limited access to these locations, se-
curity is tighter than a troll in dwarf’s clothes. Corps don’t 
put a project in a facility like this unless it has massive 
earning potential, and they’re not going to ruin that po-
tential by skimping on security, so expect the very latest 
and best that the corp has to offer. Internal Matrix sys-
tems and technology will also be top of the line. Access 
to the Matrix will be extremely limited due to the inter-
vening ground or water, and this is part of the security 
system. A team of runners getting in and out of one of 
these locations is the stuff street legends are made of.
NOVA-HOT CLUB
This is where the social scene comes alive at night. Any-
body who wants to be seen as a somebody is in this club 
tonight. There’s a lineup of losers and wannabes a mile 
long at the door. Inside the club is filled with the Sixth 
World’s beautiful people—people with nuyen to burn 
and a desire to stay current. Deals are done, stars are 
born, and sometimes die here. A club like this is filled 
with the rich and powerful that are often of great interest 
to runners or those that hire them. If you’re lucky, you’re 
not even here on a job and just get to enjoy yourself for 
the night. Either way, if you’re a smooth talker and know 
the right people, almost any kind of good or service can 
be acquired, for a price. Tech and wireless in the club is 
top of the line, with the very best in virtual entertain-
ment available. Security is subtle, but effective—trouble 
in a place like this is bad for business.
MOM-AND-POP SHOP
Big multinational megacorporations may get all the 
headlines, but most of the corps in the world are small 
“mom and pop” corps that struggle to make ends 
meet. People on the lower end of the economic scale 
often find themselves dealing with these businesses. 
They could be the local specialty grocer, talismonger, 
travel agency, or variety shop. Normally, these places 
aren’t much interest to runners or their employers, but 
sometimes one of these local owners does something 
SECRET RESEARCH STATION
HELL-HOLE BAR
NOVA-HOT CLUB
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
<< Drop-In Locations    369

==== PDF 375 ====
extraordinary, or maybe they’re just at the wrong place 
at the wrong time. Security in these offices is usually 
pretty light, with just the basics: maglocks, cameras, 
alarms. Sometimes there’s a metahuman on site, but 
most of the security will be contracted. Matrix and 
technology is often pretty basic, unless the corp is run 
by some genius working on cutting-edge stuff.
NO-TELL MOTEL
You haven’t lived a life in the shadows unless you’ve 
spent a night at a no-tell motel. Being the cheapest 
possible place to stay for a night, they appeal to those 
looking for a quick place to crash. They’re not much to 
look at but at least they’re functional. No-tell Motels 
have often crossed paths with runners, not because the 
motel itself is the target, but something—or more of-
ten someone—there is of value to the runners. Security 
at a no-tell motel is passive and fairly basic: maglocks 
on the rooms, some cameras, and sometimes one live 
staff member. In an effort to cut costs, many motels are 
becoming entirely automated. If there is Matrix access 
in the area, a motel usually has it, so runners need to be 
wary of jumpy residents hitting a PanicButton.
LARGE CORP OFFICE
Money is the blood of power in the Sixth World, and no 
one controls more of it than the big corporations. Cor-
porate money feeds the shadows more than any other, 
so it is no surprise that offices and sites of the large 
corporations are the most common battlegrounds of 
the corporate shadow wars. Runners may be hired to 
break into an office to steal information or extract key 
personnel, gather intelligence, destroy something, or 
maybe even provide additional protection. Security 
forces in these offices are most often crisp, profession-
al, and well equipped. High Threat Response and magi-
cal security forces will respond promptly to any alarms. 
Technical security will be sophisticated, with multiple 
redundant systems including maglocks (with any num-
ber of verification methods—keys, cards, biometrics), 
cameras, sensors, traps, and drones. Matrix security 
will also be solid, with all devices tied into a host that 
is loaded with IC and monitored by a spider. While not 
necessarily top-of-the-line, security is solid all around 
with no obvious weak point.
HOSPITAL OR CLINIC
The need for medical services in the Sixth World is 
higher than it has ever been. That might have some-
thing to do with the corporations running it and con-
MOM & POP SHOP
NO-TELL MOTEL
LARGE CORP OFFICE
>> GAMEMASTER ADVICE <<
370    Drop-In Locations >>

