==== 220 ====
the magicianÆs tradition. If the subject is sustaining the 
spell or the power is considered always on, he suffers a 
û2 penalty to all actions. At the end of the spellÆs dura-
tion or when it is dispelled, the compoundÆs aftereffects 
take effect. This aftereffect lasts for an equivalent orig-
inal duration (not the duration before it was dispelled) 
and cannot be treated even by magic.
Other magical compounds have a negative effect in-
stead of benefitting the user. These magical compounds 
either target a subject with a spell, or the compound 
reduces an Awakened creatureÆs ability by the com-
poundÆs Potency. While this negative effect is active, the 
secondary effect is untreatable.
Magical compounds unfortunately donÆt function 
well in combination with augmentations. When used on 
such a subject, reduce both the compoundÆs Force and 
Potency by the amount of Essence the subject has lost 
to augmentations.
AGHEXHEX
AgHexHex, more formally known as silver hexamag-
nohexaphosphate, is a magical alchemical compound 
found to have a detrimental effect against Awakened 
creatures capable of transforming into vapor particles 
(Mist Form), keeping them corporeal.
Trigger: Contact
Effect: Once in contact, if the Potency exceeds the 
targetÆs Magic attribute, the Mist Form power is negated 
completely for the duration of the compound. If the tar-
get is using Mist Form when sprayed by AgHexHex, the 
target forcibly reverts to solid form for that Combat Turn 
regardless of Potency, causing (Force + 4) Stun damage.
Aftereffect: Nauseated side effect
Required Reagent: Refined silver
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
TRIGGERS FOR PREPARATIONS AND ANCHORED SPELLS
COMMAND (P . 305, SR5)
Anchored Version: A magician can trigger this spell with 
a Simple Action, regardless of range or line of sight. If the 
preparation is out of sight, then the magician cannot chose the 
target of the activated spell.
Advanced Command (Delay Timer): When the magician sets 
up a Command trigger, he can choose to delay its activation for up 
to 60 seconds.  The length of the time delay must be chosen when 
the preparation is created. This trigger adds 2 to the Drain Value 
of the preparationÆs creation.
CONTACT (P . 305, SR5)
Anchored Version: This trigger can be activated either 
when a living aura, a previously assensed aura, or any aura 
not belonging to the spellcaster comes into direct physical or 
astral contact with the anchor. Note that without the lynchpin, 
the anchor is invisible on th

==== 221 ====
BDNB
Also known as ôBad Dog! No Biscuit!,ö this compound 
is commonly used for hunting Awakened game. 
Trigger: Contact 
Effect: Reduce the subjectÆs Magic attribute by the 
Force of the compound when the subject uses the Par -
alyzing Howl power (p. 399, SR5). If the Force exceeds 
the targetÆs Magic attribute, the power is negated com-
pletely for the duration of the compound.
Aftereffect: Unable to Speak side effect
Required Reagent: Refined hell houndÆs tongue 
(Cynoglossum magiofficinale)
LOTÆS CURSE
LotÆs Curse is a poison made from the Awakened Go-
morrah tree, whose fruit causes calcification of flesh 
and death when eaten.
Trigger: Contact
Effect: The target is subjected to a Petrify spell. Even 
if the target resists the immediate petrification, the sec-
ondary effect is still petrifying the target from the inside. 
Upon the targetÆs death, the petrification becomes per -
manent. If the victim is still alive at the end of the dura-
tion, they return to normal.
Aftereffect: Slow Death side effect
Required Reagent: Refined Gomorrah apple
SAGE
Trigger: Contact 
Effect:
 The target is empowered with the Detect 
Magic, Extended spell. 
Aftereffect: Both eyes suffer the Blinded side effect
Required Reagent: Refined Cladonia stellaris lichen 
from the North American tundra
SPIRIT STRENGTH
Trigger: Contact 
Effect:
 The target is empowered with the Hardened 
Mystic Armor power (p. 397, SR5). 
Aftereffect: Reduce the targetÆs Physical limit to 1 
for an equivalent duration.
Required Reagent: Refined teonanßcatl mushroom 
from Aztlan
WITCHÆS MOSS
Trigger: Contact
Effect:
 The target is empowered with the Paralyzing 
Touch power (p. 400, SR5).
Aftereffect: Both arms suffers the Broken Grip and 
Weak Side side effects.
Required Reagent: Refined barghest blood
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
220    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
MAGICAL COMPOUND SIDE EFFECTS
This is a list of side effects that can be applied to the 
user/target of a magical compound. 
BLINDED
One eye: û4 all actions involving sight. Two eyes: û8 on all 
actions, no vision-based Perception tests allowed.
STUNNED
Subtract 10 from Initiative score at the beginning of the 
Combat Turn while the effect is active.
DEAFENED
One ear: û2 all actions involving hearing. Two ears: û4 on 
all actions involving hearing, no hearing-based Perception 
tests allowed.
UNABLE TO SPEAK
The target loses the ability to form understandable 
speech. He can mutter, gesture, groan, and drool, but 
everything they try to speech come

==== 222 ====
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    221
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

==== 229 ====
ic sludge. But that is a reality of todayÆs talismongers: 
you encounter failure and more failure before you finally 
strike success.  
Experienced talismongers have come to accept 
there are variations in the quality of reagents. Besides 
those that have been contaminated to the point of being 
worthless, there are other reagents that have been se-
verely damaged but can still be used with a lot of effort. 
Other specimens are only moderately damaged and can 
be used with less effort; usually these are considered to 
be ôinferiorö specimens. And there are still others that 
are only considered ôsubpar,ö meaning they only have 
moderate imperfections due to various health and en-
vironmental factors. If you are lucky, you will stumble 
across what are called baseline specimens. These are 
the specimens which are meant to be the normal ex-
pressions of the species. In my opinion, the lowest 
grade of reagents you should ever consider using for 
enchanting are your baseline specimens. Anything else 
and you risk ruining the focus by interjecting flaws into 
the enchantment process. The flaws from these poor 
specimens can still carry over to the finished product 
even after the reagents have been turned into refined 
or radical reagents. Also, the more damaged the spec-
imen of reagent is from various environmental factors, 
the less you can harvest to use for your enchantments. 
A vein of silver containing ten drams of material might 
only be able to produce six drams if it is considered to 
be of inferior quality. If the severity of the contamination 
exceeds the amount of drams a source of reagents can 
produce, than nothing can be harvested and you have 
wasted your time. So it is more worth your time seeking 
out higher quality reagents and to get more for your ef-
fort than settling for subpar materials.
REAGENT QUALITY AND AMOUNT THAT MAY BE HARVESTED
QUALITY AMOUNT HARVESTED
Unusable No reagent can be harvested from source
Tainted û6 drams 
Inferior û4 drams
Subpar û2 drams
Baseline No modifier, all drams that the source of material is capable of producing can be harvested
Superior No modifier, all drams that the source of material is capable of producing can be harvested
Prime No modifier, all drams that the source of material is capable of producing can be harvested
Superior and Prime specimens take less time to refine into refined and radical reagents. Reduce the time it takes to 
convert Superior reagents into refined and radical reagents by 25 p

==== 230 ====
If you are prepared to spend a lot more time hunting 
reagents, it is possible to gather reagents from superior 
and prime specimens of plant, mineral, or animal life. 
These specimens are extraordinarily hard to come by 
in this age of ground, water, and air contamination, so 
if you have your heart set on acquiring these types of 
reagents, be prepared to spend even longer periods of 
time hunting for them. However, the qualities of these 
superior and prime specimens allow for a higher quality 
of focus to be made, and will allow the enchantment 
on the focus to last much longer. This is why I general-
ly stick to using superior and prime specimens for my 
reagents, and choosing to only use baseline-grade re-
agents when I absolutely have to. The location where 
you harvest is key to your success at locating superi-
or and prime specimens. If you are harvesting in plac-
es like Amazonia, you have a much greater chance of 
locating superior and prime specimens that have not 
been tainted by pollution or toxins. However, if you try 
talismongering in places like Aztlan, which still has a 
problem of excessive mana warps, or Tsimshian, which 
has become the poster child for toxic waste dumps the 
world over, all youÆre going to find are severely tainted 
and unusable reagents. This is why finding a good place 
to harvest and protecting it from other talismongers 
and talisleggers is key to your success. 
As a talismonger, it is also important to keep in mind 
that the methods you use to gather reagents can impact 
the quality of the specimen of reagent, particularly with 
paranormal critters. The way you choose to collect ani-
mal pelts may either be neutral and does minimal dam-
age to the pelt, or can be recklessly applied and cause 
severe harm to the pelt of the creature that it actually 
degrades its quality. Talismongers early on realized that 
shooting an animal up with bullets is a bad thing, as 
thereÆs a chance of contaminating the pelt with metallic 
and gunpowder residue that can fuck with the enchant-
ment process. Not to mention that gunshot wounds in-
flict traumatic damage on the body of a paranormal crit-
ter, causing you to lose potential drams of reagents. To 
minimize damage to a specimen, the UTA recommends 
using a basic bow and arrow if you are hunting an an-
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
<< THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER    229
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

