
===== PDF PAGE IDX 211 =====
Halley’s comet and miners had actually unearthed ar -
cheological remnants of a very old age.
Scientific examination is difficult because spectro-
scopic analysis breaks orichalcum down into its com-
ponent mundane metals. Orichalcum possesses many 
of the physical properties of gold, such as being dense 
and highly malleable. It alloys easily with iron, making 
it preferred for weapon foci construction. Aqua regia 
dissolves orichalcum, but the magical metal can be re-
claimed.
A magician can create a single dram of orichalcum 
with the Alchemy skill. It takes thirty drams of radical 
reagents: ten of gold, ten of copper, and ten of cinna-
bar. The reagents circulate in an alchemical lab for an 
average of twenty-eight days, with different traditions 
adding or subtracting a day or two. Hermetics tend to 
have formulae relating to the orbit of the moon, which 
is twenty-seven days, while most shamanistic traditions 
adhere to a full twenty-nine-day lunar cycle—from new 
moon to new moon. Regardless of the time, this circu-
lation involves the slow heating, cooling, blending, and 
precipitation of the reagents; any faster and the magic 
is lost. The magician must tend the circulation by check-
ing the process and adjusting things every ten hours or 
so. Again, hermetic mages and more modern traditions 
tend to adopt the industrial revolution’s work shift of 
eight hours, while shamanistic traditions follow a twelve-
hour schedule and tend to the circulation at sunrise and 
again at sunset. After the circulation time, the magician 
completes the cool-down process, which results in one 
coin-size dram of orichalcum from the gases and ashes 
of the reagents. Note that the amount of orichalcum is 
small compared to the amount of materials used in its 
creation. Magicians have attempted to collect and con-
dense the remaining vapors into more orichalcum, but 
this is just as hazardous as failing to create orichalcum 
in the first place. Failure to create orichalcum presents a 
risk of magical and neurological damage from alchemi-
cal lead vapors produced by the slag.
CREATING REFINED  
AND RADICAL REAGENTS
A magician can use the Alchemy skill to distill raw 
reagents into refined reagents and radical reagents. 
Refined reagents are a step up from raw reagents col-
lected from the field. Radical reagents are powerful, at 
least for reagents. Refined and radical reagents open 
more options for the Enchanting skill.
To distill a batch of raw reagents into refined reagents, 
the alchemist must circulate ten reagents in an alchem-
ical lab for around ten hours. Again, hermetic and mod-
ern traditions have adopted the industrial eight-hour 
work shift for their formulae, while shamanistic tradi-
tions have a slower, twelve-hour process tied to sunrise 
and sunset. At the end of this circulation, the alchemist 
makes an Alchemy + Magic [Astral] (3) Test. Success re-
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
QUICK ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS  
ABOUT PREPARATIONS (PP . 304–306, SR5)
• A  preparation sustains the magic for the spell through the 
lynchpin (p. 304, SR5).
•
 A preparation that is not active is considered a sympathetic
 
link (p. 146) to the magician who created it.
•
 Only one preparation can be activated per Combat T
urn, using 
a Simple Action.
•
 When the preparation activates, it rolls Force + Potency
 
[Force] as though its spell was just cast. Reagents do not 
change the limit for the preparation’s activation; they only 
increase potency during creation.
•
 Preparations become dual-natured only when active, so they
 
cannot be triggered from the astral plane.
•
 A preparation can be disenchanted through contact with 
the object.
•
 Once the prepared spell is triggered, it can be dispelled or
 
resisted like any other spell.
•
 A preparation can only handle one alchemical spell at a time.
•
 Once triggered, a preparation’
s magic is released. 
•
 Preparations with a contact trigger affect the magician and
 
opponent alike after the magician completes the preparation 
and stops touching the preparation. This is similar to the delay 
from a hand grenade.
•
 As with a successful touch attack, the subject of a contact-
triggered preparation cannot dodge the attack and can only
 
resist the effect.
•
 If the preparation takes even a single box of Physical damage,
 
the magic potential is lost. 
•
 Once triggered, the spell cannot be stopped unless it is
 
dispelled or its duration ends.
CREATING ORICHALCUM
At the end of the circulation, the magician must make an Alchemy 
+ Magic [Astral] (3) Test. Failure to meet the threshold of this test 
consumes the reagents but results in alchemical slag (unusable for 
magic purposes). Success produces one dram of orichalcum.
With a failure, the magician must make a Body + Magic 
(3) Test to resist the detrimental effects of radical lead vapors. 
Failing this test means the character suffers the occasional 
effects of disorientation (p. 409, SR5) from hallucinations. 
Each net deficit results in eight hours of hallucinations. This 
disorientation isn’t continuous, but it occurs during stressful or 
long events in that time period; exactly how this madness plays 
out is up to the gamemaster. Every subsequent failure to create 
orichalcum permanently adds an additional eight hours to the 
next orichalcum-creation failure. This represents the slow spiral 
into alchemical madness.
210    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 212 =====
sults in one dram of refined reagents, and the raw re-
agents’ magic is used up. Failure to meet the threshold 
means that some of the reagents’ magic escaped. The 
failure difference to the threshold is how many raw re-
agents were consumed and have to be replaced when 
trying again. A critical glitch in this test means that all 
the raw reagents were wasted and the magician needs a 
new batch to start over.
Refined reagents can be distilled into radical reagents 
by using the same method: every ten full drams of re-
fined reagents distill into one dram of radical reagents.
TALISMONGER SHOP  
(ALL SALES FINAL!)
Besides the usual reagents and foci, all sorts of products 
can be created by a magician skilled in enchanting. While 
all these products can be used by any magician, those 
produced with the Artificing skill must be attuned before 
they can be functional. This is an Intuition + Magic [Astral] 
(5, 1 hour) Extended Test. An attuned item is considered 
a sympathetic link to the magician when used in ritual 
magic (p. 121). The base Potency of purchased items is 6.
AQUA FICTUS
A fool’s gold solution that can be used to make false re-
agents or make an object such as an alchemical prepa-
ration or a ritual circle appear to be magical. Aqua fictus 
looks like a swirling metallic solution that emits occa-
sional flashes of light. Any item coated with aqua fictus 
appears to glow with a concentrated-mana aura like that 
of reagents. This trick is difficult to detect. A successful 
Alchemy + Magic [Mental] (3) Test lets a magician no-
tice the false magic coating on a mundane object. Sales 
of such items are hit or miss because of the variety of 
reagents required, and the coating fades entirely after 
twelve hours. This solution is used in the creation of fake 
magical items, such as a paper lotus (p. 215).
AQUA FORTIS
This substance detects traces of orichalcum and other 
true elements. An eight-ounce spray bottle can cover 
one square meter. Any traces of orichalcum left be-
hind, such as from spilled aqua regia, glow gold. Other 
Awakened elements glow violet. Aqua fortis allows the 
user to Observe in Detail (p. 165, SR5) to see if orichal-
cum or other Awakened elements are present. The 
gamemaster determines the threshold of the test.
AQUA REGIA
This solution can dissolve orichalcum without dam-
aging the metal’s magical properties. This makes the 
material very easy to transport discreetly. Eight ounces 
of aqua regia can dissolve 1 dram of orichalcum. Aqua 
regia is a corrosive acid (p. 1 70, SR5) capable of dis-
solving any metal. The base Damage Value is 14P with 
an AP of –4.
To extract orichalcum once it has been dissolved in 
aqua regia, the magician must subject the solution to 
near-freezing temperatures. This breaks down the for -
mula and neutralizes the alchemical properties. Once 
the neutralization begins, the orichalcum begins to pre-
cipitate. The aqua regia then vaporizes into yellowish 
green smoke and dissipates.
AQUA VITAE
More of an alchemist’s joke, aqua vitae is an alcoholic dis-
tillation created through alchemical means. Since soy is 
the prevalent food staple in the Sixth World, alchemists 
have worked out ways to distill liquor from just about any-
thing (which gives “hair of the dog” a whole new mean-
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
MISPLACED MAGIC ITEMS
There are days when you’ll find yourself drunk at a bar 
and your misplaced wand ends up being used by the brew 
master as a fruit skewer in some lady’s cocktail. So how does 
that affect practicing magic with that wand? Besides the odd 
citrus smell, there is a chance that the ambient mana levels 
caused discord in the item, which forces the magician to re-
attune the item in order to use it again. He does not, however, 
need to re-spend Karma. In general, if the attuned item is not 
in the magician’s possession or at a location where he has an 
active lodge or circle, the gamemaster should make a daily 
test of Background Count x 2 (3) (for more information on 
background counts, see p. 30). If successful, the item is no 
longer attuned to the magician.
Adept-attuned items (p. 124) and foci may also feel discord 
if lost or left behind, and such items will lose their attunement 
bonuses until they are re-attuned. Adepts re-attune items the 
same way magicians do.
MAGICIANS’ CURRENCY
While nuyen is always accepted, such transactions 
are easy to track, and some unlicensed or unregistered 
magicians prefer an alternative currency that is accepted by 
all practitioners of magic. To fill this need, small vials of aqua 
regia containing a single dram of orichalcum are often used in 
bartering for magical goods. Half vials are rare but acceptable 
for smaller exchanges. While orichalcum cannot be used as 
a reagent in this state, it can be used by anyone with magic 
talent once it has precipitated from the solution.
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    211
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 213 =====
ing). Such brews are more potent than standard alcohol. 
Aqua vitae has an Addiction Rating of 4 (p. 414, SR5)
ASTRAL POWDER
Astral powder, also known as fairy dust, is attracted to 
sustained magic like static cling. Astral powder was de-
veloped as an alternative to using FAB (fluorescing astral 
bacteria) to detect astral entities, since some consider 
FAB an environmental hazard regardless of the genetic 
variant. Astral powder clings to spirits, astrally projecting 
beings, wards, and sustained or quickened spells. This 
allows non-Awakened characters to use an Observe in 
Detail action (p. 165, SR5) on such things, though the 
observer will not know exactly what the object is. For 
example, a person targeted with an Invisibility spell 
would look no different under astral powder than an as-
trally projecting magician would. The dispersal device 
is a paper sphere preparation, which is learned as part 
of astral powder’s formula. This sphere detonates after 
being thrown, and the astral powder contained within 
disperses a cloud with a three-meter radius.
Since astral powder is physical, it cannot move 
through other physical objects. If an astral spirit coated 
in astral powder goes through a wall, the powder stops 
at the wall. If a sustained spell is dropped, the powder 
also drops to the floor. Astral powder doesn’t glow like 
FAB, so visibility modifiers apply. Other conditions, such 
as rain, wash off the astral powder after a few minutes. 
Requires Psychometry (see p. 144).
FETISH
An alchemist can create a magical device that reduces 
Drain when cast with a spell suited to fetishes (p. 212). 
Such spells have to be learned specifically with the fe-
tish, meaning that a character would have to learn a spell 
twice if he wants to cast it both with and without a fetish. 
An alchemist needs 1 dram of radical reagents to make 
the fetish functional for magical use. A magician casting a 
fetish spell either through Spellcasting or Ritual Spellcast-
ing can reduce the Drain Value by 2 (to a minimum of 2).
GOVI
In the vodou traditions, govi are specially prepared clay 
pots to hold work loa (watcher spirits). The houngan 
shapes clay into a pot, etches it with images of their 
mait-tete, and paints it. Since 2057, govi have been 
created from glass bottles or other modern containers 
properly designed with vevers (symbolic images of the 
loa). Other traditions have taken up creating their own 
versions of govi to contain watchers. These brooches 
and talismans are marked with spiritual symbols of the 
magician’s tradition and incorporate a small compart-
ment to contain the watcher.
A govi is created like other preparations, with the 
govi’s Force determining the Force of the watcher it 
can contain. To determine Drain for the preparation, 
roll (Force of watcher x 2) test; the hits are Drain, plus 
any modifications for the trigger (p. 305, SR5). Roll 
separately to resist Drain for the Watcher Ritual Spell-
casting. Potency reduces by 1 point of Force per week, 
instead of the customary 1 per hour. The magician can 
offer (Potency x 25) drams of reagents after creation 
to prevent the govi’s Potency from reducing for half a 
year. This offering can be done every six months. Af-
ter creation, a watcher is created specifically for that 
govi. Only one spirit can be connected to a govi at a 
time. In the case of a watcher, the govi keeps the enti-
ty suspended within it, allowing the magician to break 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
PROFESSION:  
BREW MASTER WITCH/WARLOCK
With trids propagating the myths of love potions and good 
luck charms, alchemists are constantly approached to provide 
such items to mundanes. Unfortunately, magic doesn’t work 
exactly that way. The positive that grew from this myth is the 
alchemists’ Guild of Brew Masters. A brew master witch or 
warlock learns how to use alchemy to create his or her own 
alcoholic beverages and how to be a bartender, serving mixed 
drinks akin to mythical potions.
Several upscale bars hire brew master witches or warlocks 
to provide harmless entertainment with contact-triggered 
magical drinks. Love Potion Number Nine and Potions of Healing 
or Wishes are names for mixed drinks that the witch or warlock 
makes for the average Joe in the bar.
Guild members also learn how to brew more exotic aqua 
vitae. These brews have different magical properties than normal 
formulas. Such brews include Tír Alamestra, Japanese Toso, and 
Mediterranean Styx. These may not bring good luck, but to high-
paying clientele, the end result is worth the price.
FLUORESCING ASTRAL BACTERIA
Science has had some success in cultivating mana-sensitive 
bacteria strains as part of astral security. Three strains exist: 
FAB I, FAB II, and FAB III. The first strain dies when an astral form 
or magical force such as a spell passes through it. In death the 
bacteria release a chemical that can be seen with UV light. The 
second strain is dual-natured, making it difficult for astral forms 
to pass through it, and the displacement can be seen physically. 
The third strain was a mutation that actively seeks out and feeds 
on astral forms and can be lethal to dual-natured creatures.
212    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 214 =====
up the watcher’s allotted time. It also allows for quick 
use of a watcher without having to perform the ritual. 
Releasing a watcher from a govi is a Simple Action.
If a govi is destroyed, the watcher associated with it 
is also destroyed, whether it was residing in the govi or 
not. Govi can be found, but the watcher within can only 
be commanded by the magician who created it. A magi-
cian can attune a found govi, but the watcher associated 
with it is dispelled. Requires Invocation (see p. 147).
HAND OF GLORY 
The Hand of Glory is an alchemical formula found in the 
banned witchcraft book Compendium Maleficarum. This 
preparation’s lynchpin is the hand of a talented, de-
ceased individual (the formula romanticizes this as the 
hand of a hanged criminal, but any hand will do). This 
unique alchemical preparation allows the magician to 
use the remembered talent of the individual when per -
forming a task. In game terms, the Hand of Glory is tied 
to one physical Active skill known by the previous own-
er. The skill is limited by the Force of the ritual instead of 
any other limit, including Accuracy. Reagents used must 
be refined quality or better. When triggered, the magi-
cian can use the skill for a number of minutes equal to 
the Potency. The Hand of Glory, once created, is bonded 
to the magician and cannot be unbound until the Hand is 
destroyed or used. It also doesn’t lose Potency.
The Hand of Glory can be reused without re-prepar -
ing the item, but this requires the magician’s blood (and 
thus leads down the path to blood magic). Normally an 
object used in an alchemical preparation can be re-pre-
pared if it hasn’t been destroyed, but the Hand’s talent 
fades twenty-four hours after being used. In order for 
the Hand to remember its talent, the magician must take 
Physical damage with a DV equal to the preparation’s 
Force, then transfer his blood to the Hand to recharge it. 
This wound cannot be healed by magic.
The Compendium Maleficarum warns of trying to own 
more than one Hand of Glory, saying that the Hands 
may seek vengeance on their creator if not used—idle 
hands being the devils tools and all that. Requires Nec-
romancy (see p. 143).
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    213
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 215 =====
INANIMATE VESSEL 
PREPARATION
Preparing a vessel requires a number of radical re-
agents equal to five times the Force of the spirit that 
will possess or inhabit the vessel. Preparing a vessel is 
done in the same way as a standard preparation, with a 
minimum Force equal to the Force of the spirit that will 
enter the vessel. This creation is challenging to craft, as 
the magician’s Alchemy test must exceed the vessel’s 
Object Resistance (p. 295, SR5) or Force, whichever 
is greater. Time to complete is ten days minus the net 
hits from the Alchemy test (minimum of 1 day). Failure 
means that a number of reagents equal to the hits from 
the Opposed Test are lost and the magician has to start 
again. Requires Channeling (see p. 148).
MANA-SENSITIVE FILM PLATE
Modern magicians have updated the ancient process 
of daguerreotype photography, exchanging the essen-
tial chemical actions with an alchemical process. The 
layers of chemicals used are mana-sensitive, derived 
from various Awakened plants and animals, allowing 
auras, spirits, and even background count to be record-
ed on the plate. Mana-sensitive film plates are used 
with mortis optigrams and quicksilver cameras.
MORTIS OPTIGRAM
According to an old, oft-ignored theory, in death the 
eyes record the last moments of life. Necromancers 
have found good reason to believe this theory, and 
they can photograph such images on astral film by us-
ing a mortis optigram and the eyes of the deceased. 
The eyes are positioned to face the plate in the cam-
era. As the magician takes the picture, the last thing the 
eyes saw is captured on the mana-sensitive film plate. 
The process takes twenty minutes to complete.
The practice of using the mortis optigram varies 
greatly, as does the use of such an item as legal evi-
dence. In a criminal case, Tír Tairngire treats a mortis 
optigram no differently than any physical evidence. 
The UCAS and CAS permits law-enforcement forensic 
thaumaturgists to create mortis optigrams as part of an 
investigation, but the image is considered a valid lead 
rather than evidence. NAN governments don’t allow 
the creation of mortis optigrams in any instance due to 
claims that the process is an aberrant ritual. Amazonia is 
mixed, depending on the severity of the crime.
The mortis optigram is not always a reliable source 
of information, as the eyes may be closed at the time of 
death. Other issues include drugs or cybernetics. Note 
that cybereye replacements cannot be used in a mortis 
optigram. The resulting image is almost realistic and oddly 
three dimensional on the mana-sensitive plate. If the de-
ceased suffered from hallucinations, even ones induced by 
drugs, those hallucinations can appear on the plate. If the 
deceased had the ability to astrally perceive, astral space 
may also appear on the plate (see Quicksilver Camera, p. 
215). Astral photos from a mortis optigram are not pretty 
since they are tainted with echoes of pain and emotional 
turmoil. Requires Necromancy (see p. 143).
MYSTIC RESTRAINTS  
(CUFFS/MASK/JACKET)
For confining petty Awakened criminals, law-enforce-
ment officers use cuffs and hoods that distract the in-
carcerated with lights and sounds or use electric shock 
to keep twitchy fingers in line. For the hardened crimi-
nal magicians, however, police use individually tailored 
mystic restraints. The shape of these restraints acts 
like acupuncture that restricts the magician’s access to 
magic. Mystic restraints (cuffs, masks, or jackets) have 
to be crafted with the Artificing skill, using the same 
Force requirements as crafting a symbolic link. Perma-
nently creating the restraint requires 1 Karma.
Net hits from the Artificing Test determine the Force 
of the restraint, and the Force of the restraint reduces the 
Magic rating of the Awakened individual (including ad-
epts). Adepts restrained this way temporarily lose Pow-
er Points associated with Magic loss; they may choose 
which powers are affected. There are many pressure 
points to use, but each restraint is limited to how much 
Magic it can it restrain. While restraints are made for a 
specific individual, an existing restraint can be attuned to 
another individual, but it will be half as effective. This re-
quires an Intuition + Magic (5, 1 hour) Extended Test and 
requires either assensing the subject or having a material 
link of the subject to be used in attuning the restraints.
Mystic cuffs are made of steel or titanium and can 
have a maximum Force of 8; they are ineffective if the 
subject has one or more cyberarms. Masks are made of 
steel and leather or ceramic and have a maximum Force 
of 12. Similar to a straitjacket, a mystic jacket can have 
embedded brass studs on the inside and woven symbols 
on the outside. A mystic jacket can have a Force up to 18.
If the subject has the Flux metamagic (p. 150), he can 
reduce the effectiveness of the mystic restraints by his 
initiate grade while his aura is in flux.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
DEAD VESSELS AND SPIRITS
While a corpse can be prepared for inhabitation, most 
spirits don’t like the concept of being confined to such a thing. 
Necromancers say “the bones rub them the wrong way.” Some 
mages find that the spirit inhabiting a corpse will do or say odd 
things as they channel some of the memories of the previous 
owner. Such is the risk of creating zombies or corps cadavres.
214    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 216 =====
PAPER LOTUS
Not all talismongers are nice or play fair. The ability to 
falsify magical material for financial gain is a strong mo-
tivator. Besides the few pre-Awakening artifacts that 
have shown up, “paper lotus” is a general term for using 
the Artificing skill (p. 306, SR5) to create a counterfeit 
magical item. These magical items are indistinguishable 
from the real thing unless an observer passes a Percep-
tion Test (see below), but they cannot be used for any 
magical purpose. These magical items are considered to 
have the Counterfeit quality (p. 197, Run & Gun). If the 
item can be bonded, the bonding will fail when attempt-
ing to spend Karma, and the item will be exposed as 
counterfeit. Fake reagents don’t do anything when ex-
pended. In both cases, the illusion eventually expires, so 
any magician can see that the object is fake.
When the Artificing ritual is complete, the number of 
net hits becomes the threshold for an observer deter -
mining if the item is a fake through a Perception Test. The 
Force of the Artificing ritual determines how many days 
the item appears to be magical. Paper lotus creators run 
the risk of someone detecting their items as a fake and 
then using them in ritual magic as retribution against the 
artificer. These items are sympathetic links while the illu-
sion lasts. Requires Masking (see p. 149).
QUICKSILVER CAMERA
The quicksilver camera is a handheld camera with a 
built-in collapsible tripod. It can hold five mana-sensitive 
film plates, with only one being exposed at a time. This 
camera can take an astral photograph in two minutes.
Early astral photography required several hours of 
exposure, but six years ago, technology and thaumatur-
gical research reduced the exposure time to only thirty 
minutes per mana-sensitive plate. These plates allowed 
anyone to take a picture of the astral world, and while 
beautiful enough to have a gallery at the MoMA in New 
York, they capture a very blurry view of astral space. As-
tral space is very dynamic, so it cannot sit still for thirty 
minutes. Also, the mana-sensitive plate could be over -
exposed since mana isn’t tied to light exposure, and 
whole sets of plates could be ruined if an astral entity 
moved through the camera during exposure.
To improve the process, alchemists altered the plates 
so that the Awakened photographer acted as the plate’s 
catalyst. To take a photo, the photographer removes the 
cap to expose the plate to visible light and activates the 
plate’s chemicals to record the astral world. Once acti-
vated, the exposure process cannot be stopped, and it 
completes in two minutes. Moving the camera before 
the full exposure time ruins the photograph (astrally and 
visibly). One the exposure time has elapsed, the astral 
photo automatically develops with a secondary alchem-
ical process.
FAKE MAGIC ITEMS
ITEM
MINIMUM FORCE OF
ARTIFICING RITUAL
UNITS OF AQUA 
FICTUS REQUIRED
Reagent (10 drams) 2 1
Fetish 4 1
Refined Reagent (10 drams) 4 2
Quicksilver Camera 5 1
Radical Reagent (10 drams) 5 4
Alchemical Preparation 6 1/2 Force
Focus 8 1/2 Force
Artifact * *
*Gamemaster should decide the Force of the ritual required, as artifacts are unique. In many 
cases, additional requirements/reagents are needed in falsifying an artifact.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
MAGECUFF AND MAGEMASK
Magecuffs are crafted with glomoss (a form of 
bioluminescent plant that glows in response to magic or 
astral entities) and a light-triggered shock device. If the cuffs 
detect spellcasting or astral projection, the cuffs subject the 
incarcerated individual to a 15S electrical attack (p.170, SR5).
A magemask is a plastic hood and gag that cuts off 
the incarcerated individual’s line of sight and produces a 
combination of light and sounds that disorient the magician 
and deters astral projection. Attempting astral projection while 
wearing a magemask requires a Willpower + Intuition (4) Test.
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    215
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 217 =====
Physically the image is in color as seen with a normal 
camera but with iridescent marks overlaying the image. 
These swirls and spots represent the alchemical reac-
tion to recording the astral plane, not what mundanes 
believe are auras and spirits captured on film. Viewing 
the picture astrally reveals another image: a snapshot of 
the flow of astral energies at that point in time. This astral 
image captures astral signatures, background count lev-
els, and the auras of wards, sustained spells, Awakened 
individuals, spirits, critters, preparations, and bonded 
foci. The photograph can be replicated through alchem-
ical means. The auras in the photo can only be read and 
recognized through astral perception. 
Characters may attempt to use Assensing to ana-
lyze any astral being, aura, or signature captured in an 
original astral photo; the threshold for an Assensing 
Test is 2 more than normal, and the limit for the test is 
fixed at 4 due to the camera’s limitations. Astral entities 
or objects that pass through the area while the photo 
is being taken show up as ghostly images, but no in-
formation can be gleaned from them. Copies of astral 
photos also lose a level of detail, making the fixed limit 
for the Assensing Test 3.
Since astral photographs capture auras, the plate 
can serve as a sympathetic link (p. 145) to any entity or 
object that remained in the shot for the duration of the 
exposure. Duplications of the original photograph can 
be used as a symbolic link (p. 216), with the photograph 
meeting the “Creator has met the target” condition. An 
original astral photograph’s aura can be wiped through 
smudging (p. 136). The wiped photograph is treated the 
same as a copy, though the photograph is considered to 
have a Force 12 psychic imprint.
SHOFAR
The shofar, which is a more impressive name than “the 
horn that scares spirits,” derives from the Judean tradi-
tion of exorcism. The shofar’s sound causes spirits to be 
shaken and leave the area. When using it, make an Op-
posed Test pitting the spirit’s Force + Willpower against 
the shofar’s Force x 2. Materialized or manifested spirits 
that fail the Opposed Test stop what they are doing and 
retreat back to astral space, wasting the service they 
are in process of fulfilling. Materialized or manifested 
free spirits attempt to leave the area as if affected by 
the Fear power for a number of Combat Turns equal to 
the shofar’s Potency. Spirits inhabiting a living or non-
living vessel are only distracted by the noise and suffer  
a –2 dice penalty to all actions for that Combat Turn. 
The shofar effect is instantaneous, but after activating 
it, the item disintegrates. The shofar has a longer shelf 
life than other compounds, as its Potency reduces by 1 
per week. Requires Exorcism (see p. 148).
SYMBOLIC LINK
From effigies to drawings, a symbolic link is a represen-
tation of a spell’s target. The most notorious of sym-
bolic links are voodoo dolls, which a magician can use 
to inflict curses upon the individual the doll represents. 
The magician uses the Artificing skill to create a sym-
bolic link, but the required Force depends on how well 
the magician knows the subject. The symbolic link is 
viable for a number of days equal to the net hits in the 
Artificing Test. The downside to symbolic links is that 
the object contains the creator’s astral signature while 
the link remains viable. This means that a voodoo doll 
can be used as a material link against the creator. Re -
quires Psychometry (see p. 144).
SYMBOLIC LINK CREATION
CONDITION REQUIRED FORCE
Creator knows the target intimately 
or has a material link 2
Creator has assensed the target or 
has an original astral photograph 4
Creator has a copy of an astral 
photograph of the subject 8
Creator has met the target 12
Creator is personally unfamiliar with 
the target 16
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
216    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 218 =====
MAGIC ITEM PRICE INDEX
ITEM SKILL THRESHOLD BASE TIME MATERIAL 
COST AVAILABILITY PURCHASE 
COST
AgHexHex — — — — 8 Force x 500¥
Aqua fictus Alchemy 3 10 hours 850¥ 8 1,000¥
Aqua fortis Alchemy 3 10 hours 43¥ 4 50¥
Aqua regia Alchemy 3 10 hours 85¥ 5 100¥
Aqua vitae Alchemy 3 4 hours 13¥ 1 15¥
Astral powder Alchemy 4 2 day 70¥ 4 120¥
BDNB — — — — 8 Force x 500¥
FAB I — — — — 10 50¥ per cubic 
meter
FAB II — — — — 16R Force x 50¥ per 
cubic meter
FAB III — — — — 20F Force x 25,000¥ 
per cubic meter
Fetish Artificing 2 1 day 1,700¥ 4 2,000¥
Govi — — — — Force Force x 50¥
Hand of Glory — — — — (Force x Force)
R Force x 1,500¥
Lot’s Curse — — — — 14F Force x 1,000¥
Magecuff — — — — 5 1,000¥
Magemask — — — — 2R 200¥
Mana-sensitive 
film plate Alchemy 4 3 days 21¥ 4 25¥
Mortis optigram Artificing 4 1 week 2,550¥ 6 3,000¥
Mystic cuff — — — — (Force)R Force x 200¥
Mystic jacket — — — — (Force)R Force x 500¥
Mystic mask — — — — (Force)R Force x 400¥
Quicksilver 
camera Artificing 4 1 week 2,125¥ 4 2,500¥
Sage — — — — (Force x 6)R Force x 800¥
Shofar — — — — Force Force x 800¥
Spirit strength — — — — (Force x 6)R Force x 3,000¥
Symbolic link Artificing — 1 day — — —
Witch’s moss — — — — (Force x 6)R Force x 1,600¥
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    217
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 219 =====
ADVANCED 
ALCHEMY
Initiation into the advanced alchemy metamagic (p. 
152) allows the magician to create more specific trig-
gers, including a delayed timer and specific target con-
tact, to be added. It also allows the magician to create 
magical compounds with unique properties.
MAGICAL COMPOUNDS
Some preparations are very unique in design, requir -
ing specific reagents in its creation. While they can be 
similar to other alchemical preparations, these magical 
compounds require specific refined reagents to create 
and, if the magician wishes, to improve Potency. For ex-
ample, a magician creating the sage compound must 
have at least 1 refined dram of lichen reagent. If he 
prepares the sage at Force 4 but wants a Potency of 8, 
he must add an additional 8 drams of refined reagents. 
Magicians who know the formula for these prepara-
tions are leery of giving up such secrets, so starting 
characters are not allowed to learn these formulas. 
Magical compounds still use alchemical preparation 
rules in their creation (p. 304, SR5). 
While inactive, a magical compound can be dis-
pelled like any other alchemical preparation. When ac-
tive, these compounds are trickier to dispel. The magi-
cian must be in contact with the compound and can use 
the Disenchant skill to resist or reverse the compound’s 
effect. The compound can resist with twice its Force. 
Each net hit against the magical compound reduces 
its Force. If the Force is reduced to 0, the compound 
no longer functions, and its aftereffects begin. For oth-
er compounds, the secondary effects still apply for the 
compound’s complete duration until healing is applied. 
Magical compounds have an active duration that lasts 
(Potency x 10) minutes. Inactive magic compounds de-
grade slower, reducing Potency by 1 every day.
EMPOWERED MAGICAL 
COMPOUNDS
These compounds give the subject a spell-like ability 
or critter power, which the magician can turn off with a 
Simple Action. The power lasts for either (Potency x 10) 
minutes or until it has been dispelled. When the subject 
uses an ability, the test uses the preparation’s Potency 
in place of Spellcasting and the preparation’s Force in 
place of Magic, with the usual Force for the limit. 
Every time the spell is activated after the initial ac-
tivation, the subject feels strain from the spell’s Drain 
Value based on the Force of the preparation. For critter 
powers, Drain equals the preparation’s Force. The magi-
cian resists the Drain Value with Willpower alone or per 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
FORBIDDEN KNOWLEDGE
There are several magical books that law enforcement 
tries to keep out of public hands. These are similar to guides 
on how to get away with murder or how to make a dirty bomb, 
but for questionable magical activity. Legal actions vary for 
those caught with one of these tomes, but consequences 
can involve the magician’s license to practice magic being 
revoked or being added to a security watch list. They aren’t 
exactly instructional guides on how to do blood magic. 
Instead they’re like a gateway drug that gives the magician a 
little taste of the dark stuff.
COMPENDIUM MALEFICARUM
The Compendium Maleficarum is a handbook on 
necromancy and other dark rituals. The Maleficarum was 
originally published in Italy in 1608, and a magician named 
Lopiccolo partially revised the tome in 2041, applying modern 
black-magic terminology and techniques in his translation. 
Lopiccolo did not complete his revision, unfortunately; he 
died horrifically while attempting to revise the ritual on page 
251 of the tome.
DE PRAESTIGIIS DAEMONIUM
This is a handbook on witchcraft—the bad kind. Originally 
published in 1563, it was first translated from Latin to English 
in 1928, and no one revised it for the Sixth World until 2028. 
De Praestigiis Daemonium discusses curses, potions, and 
avoiding being drowned or burned at the stake.
MORTUUS MALUM
First bound in the twelfth century, Mortuus Malum  
collects Roman accounts from Gallic, Celtic, and other 
tribal rituals as the Roman legions conquered Europe from 
60–33 BC. These rituals didn’t involve your garden-variety 
free spirits: they were meant for calling down demons to 
disembowel the Roman army. Demons didn’t actually attack 
the Romans during their conquest of Europe; however, like 
many mystical items, scholars believe there’s a grain of truth 
to Mortuus Malum’s rituals.
99 BOTTLED DEMONS ON THE WALL
Published circa 2058, this modern neo-anarchist book 
covers using alchemy and ritual sorcery for terrorist activities. 
A similar book is The Neo-Anarchist’s Guide to Street Magic 
from 2065, which offers tips and tricks for using sorcery and 
conjuring for crime and profit.
218    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
===== PDF PAGE IDX 220 =====
the magician’s tradition. If the subject is sustaining the 
spell or the power is considered always on, he suffers a 
–2 penalty to all actions. At the end of the spell’s dura-
tion or when it is dispelled, the compound’s aftereffects 
take effect. This aftereffect lasts for an equivalent orig-
inal duration (not the duration before it was dispelled) 
and cannot be treated even by magic.
Other magical compounds have a negative effect in-
stead of benefitting the user. These magical compounds 
either target a subject with a spell, or the compound 
reduces an Awakened creature’s ability by the com-
pound’s Potency. While this negative effect is active, the 
secondary effect is untreatable.
Magical compounds unfortunately don’t function 
well in combination with augmentations. When used on 
such a subject, reduce both the compound’s Force and 
Potency by the amount of Essence the subject has lost 
to augmentations.
AGHEXHEX
AgHexHex, more formally known as silver hexamag-
nohexaphosphate, is a magical alchemical compound 
found to have a detrimental effect against Awakened 
creatures capable of transforming into vapor particles 
(Mist Form), keeping them corporeal.
Trigger: Contact
Effect: Once in contact, if the Potency exceeds the 
target’s Magic attribute, the Mist Form power is negated 
completely for the duration of the compound. If the tar-
get is using Mist Form when sprayed by AgHexHex, the 
target forcibly reverts to solid form for that Combat Turn 
regardless of Potency, causing (Force + 4) Stun damage.
Aftereffect: Nauseated side effect
Required Reagent: Refined silver
>> STREET GRIMOIRE  <<
TRIGGERS FOR PREPARATIONS AND ANCHORED SPELLS
COMMAND (P . 305, SR5)
Anchored Version: A magician can trigger this spell with 
a Simple Action, regardless of range or line of sight. If the 
preparation is out of sight, then the magician cannot chose the 
target of the activated spell.
Advanced Command (Delay Timer): When the magician sets 
up a Command trigger, he can choose to delay its activation for up 
to 60 seconds.  The length of the time delay must be chosen when 
the preparation is created. This trigger adds 2 to the Drain Value 
of the preparation’s creation.
CONTACT (P . 305, SR5)
Anchored Version: This trigger can be activated either 
when a living aura, a previously assensed aura, or any aura 
not belonging to the spellcaster comes into direct physical or 
astral contact with the anchor. Note that without the lynchpin, 
the anchor is invisible on the physical plane and takes up space 
equal to the caster’s size.
Advanced Contact (Target-Specific): Creating a preparation 
with this contact trigger requires a material link to the subject. After 
successful creation, the preparation only activates on contact with 
the person associated with the material link. This trigger adds 1 to 
the Drain Value of the preparation’s creation. Such a preparation 
can be used as a sympathetic link to both the preparer and the 
subject it was created for. This trigger is for preparations only.
Advanced Contact (Gender/Metatype-Specific): This contact 
trigger allows the preparation to only trigger when touched by 
someone of either a specific gender (which includes a full range 
of genders rather than the traditional binary two; people should be 
treated as the gender with which they identify) or metatype. This 
trigger adds +3 to the Drain Value of the preparation’s creation.
TIMED (P . 305, SR5)
Anchored Version: A timed trigger can range from 1 Combat 
Turn up to (Force) months before the spell activates.
BACKGROUND COUNT (ANCHORED SPELLS ONLY)
This trigger activates if the background count of the area is 
modified in any way: raised, lowered, or undergoes an aspected 
change (see Background Count, p. 30). At the gamemaster’s 
discretion, any magic use in the area may create sufficient minor, 
temporary background fluctuations to trigger the construct. This 
trigger adds 1 to the Drain Value of the anchored spell.
DETECTION SPELL (ANCHORED SPELLS ONLY)
If a Detection spell is part of the anchor, the triggered spell 
can only target someone or something in direct physical or astral 
contact with it. In addition, if a Detection spell serves as the 
trigger, this spell can aim the anchored spell at any valid target it 
detects within range. This second spell must be quickened (p. 326, 
SR5) and linked to the anchor. This trigger adds +1 to the Drain 
Value of the anchored spell.
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    219
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)