
===== PDF p203 =====
Logic [Mental] (Force x 5, 1 day) Extended Test. 
Be aware that having someone else design your 
spirit formula means the creator might keep a 
copy for themselves.
•	
By undertaking a metaplanar quest (p. 140) to 
the chosen metaplane, an initiate can locate a 
formula that matches her needs.
To perform the summoning ceremony, the conjurer 
needs a physical copy of this formula. For allies requiring 
a vessel, either the original or a copy of the spirit formula 
must be carved into the prepared vessel.
CREATING AN ALLY 
SPIRIT FORMULA
To create a spirit formula and determine the Karma costs 
for conjuring an ally spirit, perform the following steps:
Step 1: Choose Force: The base cost of an ally spirit 
is 8 Karma times desired Force.
Step 2: Choose Form(s): The ally spirit may have 
only one of the following powers: Inhabitation (p. 
195), Materialization (p. 398, SR5), or Possession 
(p. 197). Materialization allies have a base form 
that usually applies to the conjurer’s traditions. 
Allies can have additional forms at the cost of 2 
Karma each; an ally can switch between forms 
using a Complex Action. Inhabitation allies must 
have a prepared vessel for them, but they can only 
have multiple forms if a true form results from the 
merge. Possession allies have no material form of 
their own, but vessels can be prepared for them.
Step 3: Choose Powers: Ally spirits start with Astral 
Form (p. 394, SR5), Banishing Resistance (p. 194), 
Realistic Form (p. 198), Sapience (p. 400, SR5), and 
Sense Link (p. 198). Each ally also receives one ad-
ditional power per point of Force, chosen from any 
powers of spirits appropriate to the conjurer’s tra-
dition. Beyond this, further powers appropriate to 
the conjurer’s tradition may be chosen at the cost 
of 5 Karma per power. If the conjurer chooses the 
Elemental Attack, Energy Aura, or Engulf powers, 
she must specify what form the power takes.
Step 4: Choose Skills: Allies start with the skills of 
Assensing, Astral Combat, Perception, and Un-
armed Combat. Additional skills that the conjurer 
knows or that may be needed for the spirit to use 
one of its powers (such as Exotic Ranged Weapon 
for Elemental Attack or Counterspelling for Mag-
ical Guard) cost 5 Karma each. Allies may never 
possess skills from the Conjuring group, and they 
may only be given the Flight skill (p. 394, SR5) if it 
fits the spirit’s form.
Step 5: Choose Spells: An ally spirit can be taught 
any spells the conjurer knows for 3 Karma each or 
ones the conjurer doesn’t know for 5 Karma each 
(spell formulae are still required).
CONJURING AN ALLY
The ritual for summoning an ally must be performed in a 
magical lodge with a Force at least equal to the ally be-
ing summoned. Follow summoning rules (p. 300, SR5). 
Immediately after summoning, the spirit must be bound 
using standard binding rules (p. 300, SR5). Calculate Drain 
as if summoning and binding a spirit of the ally’s Force.
If the binding succeeds, the magician pays an 
amount of Karma as outlined in the ally’s spirit formula. 
If the binding generates succeeds, the magician pays an 
amount of Karma as outlined in the ally’s spirit formula. 
If the necessary amount of Karma cannot be paid, the 
ritual fails.
If the ally has the Inhabitation power, the conjurer 
must already have a prepared vessel. After the spirit is 
bound it must immediately use its Inhabitation power on 
the vessel. As per the Inhabitation power (p. 195), the 
conjurer may choose to influence the outcome of the 
Inhabitation Test. Inhabitation takes a number of days 
equal to the spirit’s Force and is considered part of the 
ritual; thus the magician must continuously attend to the 
vessel during this time.
ALLY SPIRIT ABILITIES
Ally spirits follow standard spirit rules, with the follow-
ing exceptions:
AID SORCERY AND AID STUDY
When using Aid Sorcery and Aid Study services, an ally 
spirit is considered appropriate for every spell category.
ATTRIBUTES
An ally’s Physical and Astral attributes equal its Force. 
However, allies start with an Edge attribute equal to the 
Edge of its conjurer. Inhabitation allies follow the rules 
for the Inhabitation power (p. 195) to determine phys-
ical attributes.
LOYALTY
Allies are more loyal than normal spirits because that 
loyalty is part of the spirit’s formula. Because of this, 
an ally will serve a character until their master’s death 
(or near-death) frees them. Unlike normal spirits, an ally 
might go out of its way to assist its master or volunteer 
helpful information. On the other hand, a mistreated 
ally can potentially turn on its master. Allies are consid-
ered to start with a Loyalty rating of 6 (see p. 55, SR5), 
but a master’s particularly callous behavior toward her 
spirit or other spirits can potentially lower this. See Ally 
Spirit Loyalty, p. 207.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH    201
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p204 =====
MAGIC SKILL USE
Every ally spirit is considered a full Magician (see p. 
69, SR5) and can be designed with any magical skills 
known to its summoner, except skills in the Conjuring 
group. Allies also may not initiate, and an ally inhabit-
ing a vessel may not astrally project.
NATIVE PLANE
An ally’s native metaplane is specified by the spirit for-
mula and can be used to destroy the spirit by making a 
metaplanar quest (p. 140) to that plane.
OPEN-ENDED SERVICE
An ally’s services are never exhausted, and the ally can 
perform any unbound or bound spirit service (see p. 
302, SR5) an unlimited number of times, including Re-
sist Drain (see below). Ally spirits do not count against 
a magician’s limit of bound spirits.
RESIST DRAIN
A magician casting a spell may choose to have her ally 
spirit take the spell’s Drain instead. This can be done in 
two different ways. Either use the ally’s Magic attribute 
to determine if Drain is Physical or not and have the 
spirit resist the Drain as normal, or the magician may 
buy one extra hit on her Drain Resistance Test in ex-
change for her ally suffering one box of Physical dam-
age (which the ally cannot resist). Regardless of the 
method, using this service is incredibly painful for the 
spirit and will foster hatred in the spirit if abused.
SENSE LINK
Ally spirits have the power of Sense Link (p. 198), 
which let them share sensory data with their conjurers 
at a limited range. The conjurer may not target spells 
through this power.
ENHANCING AN ALLY
Sometimes you want to give your ally spirit a little 
more oomph—add new forms, powers, skills, or spells 
or increase the spirit’s total Force. This enhancement 
requires first modifying your ally spirit’s formula. Mod-
ifying the formula requires either an Arcana + Logic 
[Mental] (Force x 5, 1 day) Extended Test or a meta-
planar quest. 
The rebinding ritual, known as a Ritual of Change, 
must be performed in a magical lodge with a Force 
equal to or greater than the ally. Spend the usual 
amount of binding reagents, and pay Karma equal 
to all the relevant changes to the spirit. However, 
increasing an ally’s Force with a Ritual of Change re-
quires 16 Karma per point of Force beyond the spirit’s 
initial Force.
An Inhabitation Test is not necessary for inhabiting 
allies, but the conjurer may choose to provide a new 
vessel for the spirit to merge with.
LOSING AN ALLY
A magician who routinely mistreats his ally spirit is just 
asking for it to eventually turn on him. Also, a magician 
who is overly dependent on his ally or regularly endan-
gers it can risk making the ally resentful, which may 
cause it to seek freedom. An ally can only break away 
during a Ritual of Change or if its master is knocked out 
by Drain or by Physical damage, and it will only make 
the attempt if it feels it has been wronged in some way.
When an ally attempts to break free, it makes a Force 
x 2 [Force] test against the magician’s Binding + Magic 
[Mental]. If the spirit generates any net hits, it goes free 
and may become a free spirit (gamemaster’s discretion).
If an ally successfully breaks free during a Ritual of 
Change, the ritual fails: the reagents and time are spent, 
but the Karma remains unspent. The magician must also 
resist a Drain Value equal to twice the number of hits the 
spirit got on its test. If the magician is incapacitated by 
the Drain, the ally immediately goes free.
AVATAR SPIRITS
In game terms, avatars are powerful free spirits that can 
act as a magician’s spirit guide. Attacking or using magi-
cal skills against an avatar is usually futile, as it can result 
in the magician being transported to the metaplanes, 
unable to use magic for a time, or some other conse-
quence of the gamemaster’s choosing. If in danger, an 
avatar spirit will instantly vanish to the metaplanes.
Avatar spirits are intended to be used for roleplaying 
opportunities. They can act as a warning of impending 
doom or they can play devil’s advocate. In any case, an av-
atar spirit should never be something players can exploit. 
FREE SPIRITS
The following rules offer guidelines for using free spir-
its in a Shadowrun game.
BORN FREE
Whenever a spirit becomes uncontrolled, the game-
master decides whether it becomes a free spirit. Bound 
spirits with a Force of 6 or higher tend to become free 
spirits due to a long association with metahumanity 
and the natural world, but lesser spirits, especially un-
bound ones, tend to return to the metaplanes.
To randomly determine whether a spirit goes free, 
have the spirit make an Edge [Force] (3) Test. If success-
ful, the spirit becomes free and has a starting Edge of 
1. Every net hit increases the spirit’s Edge by 1. Failure 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
202    THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p205 =====
means the spirit departs to the metaplanes. Unbound 
spirits generally do not go free and suffer a –4 dice pool 
modifier for the test. On the other hand, spirits that have 
had memorable or frequent encounters with metahu-
manity receive a +2 dice pool modifier.
NEW POWERS
Every free spirit gains the Banishing Resistance power 
(p. 194) and is considered a full Magician (p. 69, SR5) 
with the exception that they may never have skills in 
the Conjuring group and may not astrally project from 
an inhabited vessel unless it has the Astral Projection 
power (p. 204). Also, when a spirit becomes free, it 
gains a number of new powers equal to its Edge attri-
bute. After that, each time the spirit’s Edge increases, 
the spirit also gains another new power. New powers 
can be chosen from any of the following:
•	
The original spirit type’s list of optional powers.
•	
One of these spirit powers: Astral Gateway, Aura 
Masking, Divining, Energy Drain (Essence), Ma-
terialization, Possession, or Realistic Form.
•	
Any metamagic technique available to meta-
human initiates (except those from the Spiritual 
Arts, p. 147). Free spirits use Edge instead of ini-
tiate grade. Free spirits may also possess metam-
agics currently unknown to metahumanity, which 
can provide gamemasters with a unique opportu-
nity to introduce a new metamagical technique.
•	
A unique power chosen from the list under Free 
Spirit Powers on p. 204.
FREE SPIRIT SERVICES
A free spirit does not normally owe services to anyone, 
but it can perform any service a bound spirit can perform 
(p. 302, SR5) if it wishes to. A free spirit can be bound by 
its spirit formula (see below) and compelled to perform 
services, but it does not return to the metaplanes when 
the services are exhausted or its master dies. 
TRUE NAMES
The true name of a spirit is a complex, arcane formula that 
represents the sum total of the spirit’s essence and nature. 
Although intricate and abstract, an identified spirit formu-
la can be transcribed by the Arcana skill into recognizable 
symbols and terms. Anyone who possesses a copy of a 
spirit formula can command the free spirit that the formu-
la represents. Because of this, few free spirits are willing 
to allow multiple copies of their spirit formulas to exist.
LEARNING  
THE SPIRIT FORMULA
A spirit formula can be learned via several different 
methods:
•	
Find Physical Location: A spirit’s true name can 
be physically imprinted on an object, a person, 
or even a place that was near the spirit when it 
first broke free, but free spirits often relocate any 
object imprinted with its true name at the first 
opportunity. The true name itself is similar to 
an astral signature and can be identified with an 
Assensing + Intuition [Astral] (3) Test. Translat-
ing the true name into a spirit formula requires 
an Arcana + Logic [Mental] (spirit’s Force x 5, 1 
day) Extended Test. A bound spirit can assist in 
this task as an Aid Study service, regardless of 
the spirit’s type. The spirit formula takes a form 
appropriate for the spirit’s tradition: a thauma-
turgic formula for a hermetic mage, a totemic 
statuette for a shaman, and so on.
•	
Metaplanar Quest: An initiate may learn a spir-
it’s true name by undertaking a metaplanar quest 
(p. 140) to the spirit’s native metaplane. A spir-
it’s metaplane can be obvious or obscure. With-
out obvious clues, a magician must either suc-
ceed in an Assensing + Intuition [Astral] (2) Test 
if observing the spirit directly or an Assensing 
+ Intuition [Astral] (5) Test if assensing an astral 
signature. A metaplanar quest for a spirit’s true 
name should be an appropriately harrowing and 
difficult undertaking, and it might require a spirit 
guide to reach the necessary plane. A successful 
quest etches the true name in the initiate’s mind; 
at any time thereafter, he can translate it into a 
spirit formula with an Arcana + Logic [Mental] 
(spirit’s Force x 5, 1 day) Extended Test.
•	
Design Formula: If a magician directly observ-
ing the spirit succeeds in an Assensing + Intu-
ition [Astral] (5) Test, she can attempt to design 
a functional spirit formula from scratch. Doing 
so requires an Arcana + Logic [Mental] (spirit’s 
Force x 10, 1 day) Extended Test.
SPIRIT FORMULA COPIES
A spirit is instinctively aware of the location of all cop-
ies of its spirit formula—where any of them are when 
they are created, moved, or destroyed—no matter how 
many astral barriers exist between the spirit and the 
formula. If a new copy is made, the spirit automatically 
becomes aware of its location.
FREE SPIRITS  
AND KARMA
Free spirits need Karma to grow in power, but unlike 
characters, they cannot earn it for themselves. A free 
spirit must receive Karma as a freely given gift from a 
metahuman; it cannot take Karma for itself unless it has 
the rare Energy Drain (Karma) power (p. 205). Negoti-
ate a deal with a free spirit, and it will likely ask for Kar-
ma as payment; some spirits may ask for services, con-
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH    203
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p206 =====
tacts, unique enchantments, or even material wealth, 
but generally Karma is what they value above all else.
FEEDING THE FREE SPIRIT
Giving a free spirit Karma requires either a spirit pact (p. 
205) or a ritual involving the spirit’s formula. Although a 
spirit needs Karma, allowing metahumans access to its 
spirit formula places itself in a vulnerable position. This 
means the spirit’s best interest is to keep donors hap-
py—or dead. The ritual to give Karma takes 1 hour per 
point of Karma given.
USING KARMA
A free spirit can use Karma to improve itself in the fol-
lowing ways. See Character Advancement, p. 103, SR5 
for more details.
•	
It may improve its attributes separately. Each at-
tribute begins at the Force the spirit had when it 
went free. Free spirits have no racial maximum.
•	
It may improve or purchase new skills.
•	
It may initiate as a magician does, but doing so 
grants a new spirit power per grade rather than 
a metamagical technique.
•	
It may increase its Force by 1 point at a time by 
paying Karma equaling the new Force x 10. Rais-
ing Force increases all of the spirit’s attributes 
and powers that are based on Force.
BINDING A FREE SPIRIT
The inherent power of a true name allows anyone, even 
mundanes, to summon and bind a free spirit.
SUMMONING A FREE SPIRIT
To call forth a free spirit, the summoner must possess the 
spirit formula and concentrate on the spirit. The spirit will 
be drawn to the formula and manifest nearby, usually with 
a bad temper. This summoning generates no services, but 
no roll is required, and the summoner suffers no Drain. 
Also, magic cannot prevent this action from occurring. 
Even a spirit possessing a vessel must abandon the ves-
sel and appear if summoned this way. A spirit inhabiting a 
vessel is resistant to this pull since its essence is anchored 
to the physical plane, but it must travel toward the sum-
moner by the fastest physical means possible. If the sum-
moner moves before the inhabiting spirit arrives, the spirit 
is no longer drawn toward the summoner.
THE BINDING RITUAL
If the summoner chooses to bind the spirit, the pres-
ence of the spirit’s formula prevents the spirit from 
harming the summoner during the binding ritual. The 
ritual to bind a free spirit requires (Force x 25) drams 
of binding reagents. The ritual itself may be conducted 
anywhere—no magical lodge is needed—and it takes 
a number of hours equal to the spirit’s Force. At the 
end of the ritual, the summoner makes an Opposed 
Test by rolling his Binding + Willpower [Mental] against 
the spirit’s Force + Edge. If the character wins, the spirit 
owes a number of services equal to the number of net 
hits. This ritual also produces no Drain.
The spirit cannot harm the summoner until its ser-
vices are exhausted, but the spirit can still plot to put its 
master in harm’s way. The spirit can also be re-bound 
with another binding ritual an unlimited number of 
times. If the master glitches on the rebinding test, the 
spirit gets 1 Combat Turn to do anything it wants be-
fore the binding takes effect and places it back under the 
master’s control. If the master critical glitches the test, 
all services owed are lost and the spirit becomes free 
once again.
BANISHING  
A FREE SPIRIT
Free spirits can be banished just like any other spirit (p. 
301, SR5), but all of them possess the Banishing Resis-
tance power (p. 194). Since a free spirit is usually un-
bound and owes no services that can be banished away, 
each net hit the banisher receives reduces the spirit’s 
unspent Edge (bound free spirits add their Edge and ser-
vices together). A free spirit whose Edge is reduced to 0 
in this way is temporarily disrupted and vanishes to its na-
tive metaplane. It may return when its Edge replenishes.
A free spirit that has been banished or disrupted 
can be prevented from ever returning if the banisher 
immediately destroys a copy of the spirit’s formula and 
succeeds in an Opposed Test between her Banishing + 
Willpower [Mental] and the spirit’s Force + Edge. Unfor-
tunately, there’s no way to tell whether this succeeded 
or not, unless the spirit later returns. The banishing at-
tempt may be repeated, but this requires another copy 
of the spirit’s formula.
FREE SPIRIT POWERS
The following powers are only available to free spirits.
ASTRAL PROJECTION
Type: M	 	
Action: Complex
Range: Self	
Duration: Special
The spirit can astrally project, just like a magician (p. 
313, SR5). This power is only available to spirits with the 
Inhabitation power. A spirit that does not return to its 
body after (Force x 2) hours is disrupted.
MUTABLE FORM
Type: P	 	
Action: Auto
Range: Self	
Duration: Special
Spirits normally materialize with the same form ev-
ery time, but Mutable Form allows the spirit to appear 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
204    THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p207 =====
differently each time. The spirit’s aura is unchanged, 
however. If the spirit also has the Realistic Form power 
(p. 198), add the spirit’s Force to any Disguise Tests (p. 
133, 136, SR5) it makes to impersonate someone. This 
power is only available to spirits with Materialization.
PERSONAL DOMAIN
Type: M	 	
Action: Auto
Range: LOS	
Duration: Sustained
The spirit leaves its personal mark over an area of 
astral space, up to 10,000 square meters per point of 
Force. Over time this area accumulates a background 
count aspected toward the tradition the spirit represents 
(p. 30). The gamemaster determines how quickly the 
background accumulates, but the process should take 
months or longer, and the background count should not 
exceed the spirit’s Force / 2.
REGENERATION
Type: P	 	
Action: Auto
Range: Self	
Duration: Always
Similar to the critter power of Regeneration (p. 400, 
SR5), this power only applies to the spirit’s materialized, 
possessed, or inhabited form. If the spirit possesses or 
inhabits a formerly living vessel, the vessel slowly re-
generates back to its living form. For example, a wooden 
homunculus begins to grow new leaves, and a corpse 
regains a semblance of life.
SPIRIT PACT
Type: M	 	
Action: Special
Range: Special	
Duration: Special
A spirit with this power can enter into one or more 
spirit pacts (p. 137). The gamemaster has the final say on 
what pacts a spirit can enter into. For rules about con-
ducting a spirit pact, see Spirit Pact (Contractual), p. 136.
GREATER POWERS
Greater powers are so dramatic, unusual, or powerful 
that they can often define an entire encounter with a 
spirit. Gamemasters should keep these powers rare 
and limit a spirit to only one of them.
HIDDEN LIFE
Type: P	 	
Action: Complex
Range: Touch	
Duration: Permanent
The spirit uses this power to permanently place its life 
force in a creature, place, or object. As long as the hid-
ing place remains safe, the spirit cannot be permanently 
banished or destroyed by any means. The spirit is able to 
return after a year and a day if banished with its spirit for-
mula, but a character holding the spirit formula may call 
the spirit sooner.
The hiding place gains Immunity to Normal Weapons 
with a Magic equal to the spirit’s and Immunity to Age (p. 
397, SR5). If the hidden life holder is destroyed, the life 
force returns to the spirit, and the spirit is treated normally.
ENERGY DRAIN (KARMA)
As described on p. 195, with a Range of Touch and 
causing Physical damage.
VESSEL TRADING
Type: P	 	
Action: Complex
Range: Touch	
Duration: Instant
A spirit with Possession may choose to evict the life 
force of a living vessel, either by ejecting the victim’s life 
force as an astrally projecting creature or putting the vic-
tim’s life force in the spirit’s old vessel. If the old vessel 
already contains a life force that was subdued by Pos-
session, the victim is forced to astrally project instead. 
Follow the standard rules for the Possession power (p. 
197). Victims placed into a living or nonliving vessel 
cannot control the vessel like a possessing spirit and are 
trapped there. The only possible methods of escape is 
if a free spirit with this power switches them back, the 
victim can astrally project, or the vessel is exposed to an 
astral rift or an entity with the Astral Gateway power (p. 
194). A victim trapped in an inanimate vessel or astral 
space will feel his life force ebbing away, and he will die 
after (Magic or Essence) x 2 hours.
WEALTH
Type: P	 	
Action: Complex
Range: LOS	
Duration: Special
A spirit with this power can generate precious metals, 
jewels, and other rare items of great value. Where these 
items come from is a question no spirit has answered. 
Once per month, the spirit may make a Magic + Edge 
[Force] Test. Every hit generates 10,000 nuyen worth of 
mineral alchemical reagents, usually precious metals or 
gems. These permanent creations indefinitely carry the 
spirit’s astral signature. The markets being what they are, 
characters may find it difficult to sell magical gems.
A spirit with this power may also create a similar 
amount of temporary wealth each day, but the next 
time the suns sets or rises, these valuable items vanish 
or transform into dirt or other worthless substances. Be-
cause of this, savvy businessmen are reluctant to pur-
chase magical gold.
GREAT FORM 
SPIRITS
The rules for great form spirits can be found under 
Summon Great Form Spirit (Minion) on p. 136 and In-
vocation on p. 147.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH    205
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p208 =====
REPUTATION IN 
THE SPIRIT WORLD
Conjurers interact with the spirit world on a regular ba-
sis, and odds are they might purposely or unwittingly 
perform actions that endear the spirit world to them a 
bit more or less than usual. Word travels fast through 
the spirit world, so if you have trouble getting spirits 
to answer or obey you, maybe it’s time to take a good 
look in the mirror.
Actions have consequences, and nowhere is this 
more true than when dealing with spirits. To reflect how 
the spirit world regards a character, the gamemaster may 
choose to use the Spirit Index and Astral Reputation.
ACCRUING SPIRIT INDEX
The following actions increase a character’s Spirit Index 
by the listed amount:
•	
Disrupting a normal spirit: 1
•	
Destroying disrupted spirit in its native meta-
plane: 5
•	
Banishing then conjuring the same spirit: 2
•	
Rebinding: 1 per Binding Test beyond the first
•	
Binding a Free Spirit: 5
•	
Permanently Banishing/Destroying a Free Spirit: 5
•	
Long-term Binding: 10
•	
Fettering: 20
•	
Using Resist Drain power: 5
•	
Using Spell Binding spirit service: 20
•	
Exposing spirit to toxicity/corruption: 1 per hour
•	
Exposing spirit to mana void: (Background Count) 
per hour
•	
Losing an ally spirit: 20
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
206    THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p209 =====
The gamemaster is encouraged to keep a charac-
ter’s Spirit Index secret until its effects begin to impact 
gameplay.
A character can negate accruing Spirit Index for his 
actions in one of two ways. First, any action—regardless 
of its Spirit Index value—that is deemed helpful to the 
spirit world (gamemaster’s discretion) does not accrue 
Spirit Index. Examples include using a Spirit Index ac-
tion to disrupt a magical threat, such as a blood, insect, 
or toxic spirit. Second, by expending ([Astral Reputation 
+ 1] x [Spirit Index value of action]) drams of radical re-
agents (p. 210), a character may prevent accruing Spirit 
Index points for any action worth 5 or fewer Spirit Index 
points. Unfortunately, no amount of reagents can offset 
the immediate damage of more heinous crimes against 
spirits. Those kinds of actions require slightly more con-
trition to erase.
ASTRAL REPUTATION
A character’s Astral Reputation begins at 0. For every 
25 points of Spirit Index a character accumulates, his 
Astral Reputation increases by 1. When performing 
Summoning, Binding, or Banishing Tests or when con-
ducting interactions with spirits that require using so-
cial skills, a character incurs a negative dice pool modi-
fier equal to his Astral Reputation.
ALLY SPIRIT LOYALTY
Ally spirits usually begin with a Loyalty Rating of 6. In 
addition to a master’s actions that might reduce her al-
ly’s Loyalty (gamemaster’s discretion), a magician’s As-
tral Reputation ties directly into how loyal the ally is. If 
a magician attempts to summon a new ally, reduce the 
ally’s Loyalty rating by the summoner’s Astral Reputa-
tion. If this results in a Loyalty of 0 (or lower), the ritual 
automatically fails and the ally vanishes before it can 
be bound.
After summoning and binding an ally, the ally’s Loy-
alty rating decreases by 1 each time the summoner’s As-
tral Reputation increases by 1. Likewise, if the summon-
er’s Astral Reputation ever decreases, the ally’s Loyalty 
rating increases to reflect the spirit’s newfound esteem.
SETTING THINGS RIGHT
When your reputation among spirits has reached a 
point that it’s negatively affecting your conjuring abil-
ities, it might be time to balance the karmic scales. 
There are two different ways to work oneself back into 
the good graces of the spirit world, and neither of them 
are easy.
Conjuring Geas: As a sign of contrition, the conjurer 
may choose a geas (p. 142) that restricts their summon-
ing and apply it to any action that uses the Conjuring skill 
group. Example geasa would be: only conjuring spirits 
during the day (time geas); only performing Conjuring 
group actions at one’s personal lodge (location geas); 
or only summoning spirits of three selected types. Each 
different geas taken reduces the conjurer’s Astral Rep-
utation by 1. Like any negative quality, a geas may later 
be removed by spending Karma (see Qualities, p. 106, 
SR5). Removing a geas with Karma does not affect Astral 
Reputation. Treat geas as if it provided a 5 Karma bonus.
Atonement: The character may also spend Karma 
to lower her Astral Reputation. For the ritual to repay 
one’s debt to the spirit world, see Atonement (Con-
tractual), p. 123.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
ASTRAL REPUTATION
RATING EFFECTS
0
Spirits either don’t know who you are, or you’ve 
atoned for all your spiritual crimes.
1
You’ve only manage the rock the spirit boat a little, 
but who hasn’t? Spirits are relatively obedient.
2
Some spirits suspect you don’t have their  
best interests in mind. Other give you the  
benefit of the doubt.
3
The jig is up. Powerful spirits rarely speak to you, 
but weaker spirits aren’t yet wise to your game.
4+
You’ve rightfully earned the spirit world’s enmity. 
Only desperate spirits answer when you call.
<< THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH    207
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p210 =====
“Welcome to the Phoenix’s Nest,” chirps a holographic 
assistant at the talismonger shop in Cheyenne. “How 
may I help you?”
Helix looks up from the deck in her hand and gives 
the hologram a wink as it fades away. 
The shelves are lined neatly with “fair trade” reagents 
from around the world, including telesma and fetishes 
organized and alphabetized by tribe—though the Sioux 
have a conspicuously larger end cap.
Finally noticing the hologram’s silence, a heavy-set 
man with a neatly trimmed beard looks up from his 
commlink and straightens his short coat. “Um, can I help 
you find something?”
Helix makes eyes at him from behind her iridescent 
blue lashes. “Sure thing, sugar. My client is looking for 
a few hard-to-find reagents for his work. Some say you 
have frankincense for sale.” 
The proprietor looks at her. “This way then. The area 
over here is for our more potent reagents. We also offer 
distillation services if these products don’t meet your cli-
ent’s requirements.” He leads her to a back room where 
a rainbow of colored-glass bottles are stored alongside 
lined boxes holding various stones carved to convey a 
semblance of power. “And here is the frankincense.”
As Helix chews her gum and looks around the room, 
her brother Knotingham strolls into the store, wearing 
the clichéd outfit of a black duster and cowboy hat. She 
spoofs the alarm at the door to prevent it from going off 
as her brother enters.
“I’ll be with you in a moment,” says the flustered 
proprietor, as he isn’t used to having to talk to people. 
“We’re having some technical difficulties.”
Helix brings out a little perfume bottle and smiles as 
she sprays some on her exposed neck. In a fluid motion, 
she sprays the back wall of stones and frankincense. The 
proprietor gasps; fingerprints appear to glow a burnt or-
ange along the shelves and corner. It appears the shelf 
can move based on the position of the fingerprints.
“Tsk, tsk, sugar,” she says. “Looks like someone has 
been naughty. And a false door? Shall we take a look at 
what’s behind it?”
As Helix pushes on the shelf where the fingerprints 
are, the proprietor tries to use his commlink. “I don’t 
know who you are,” he says, “but I’m calling the cops.” 
He discovers his commlink OS is locked and turns to 
leave the building, but finds Helix’s brother blocking his 
way. Before he can react, a stun baton touches his chest.
Knotingham catches the unconscious proprietor and 
places him behind the counter. “Target One is out.”
“System is under my control,” says Helix. “Store is 
now closed and the room is located.”
“Good,” says a voice over their earpieces. “Brogan is 
coming to you.”
The door handle jiggles as Helix unlocks it. Just be-
yond is a wicker man made of wood bundles and plastic 
trash. Brogan walks past Knotingham into the room. The 
room contains racks of foci in various states of comple-
tion, a table with a pouch of what looks like gold dust, 
some liquid-filled vials, and four partially wrapped jade 
disks that looked as if they had just arrived. A hermetic 
circle is painted on the ground.
Brogan stops at the circle. “Helix, would you mind 
pouring out one of those vials onto the circle? Be careful 
not to get any on you.”
Helix does as he asked, and the paint and even the 
concrete starts to smoke and burn. Brogan then crosses 
the circle, picks up the bag of gold and the jade disks, 
and stuffs them into the wicker man’s chest before leav-
ing the store.
“Knotingham,” Helix says, “leave the gift and escort 
Brogan to his next stop.”
Knotingham leaves a glass egg on the counter be-
fore and Helix leave the store. “Where to next, Boss?” 
he asks.
“I have business in Butte Below,” Brogan replies.
Minutes later, the proprietor wakes up disoriented 
from the shock. He sees the glass egg on the counter. 
A second later his attention is focused on the shadowy 
figure on the other side of the counter. Then the egg ex-
plodes in magical flames.
STREET GRIMOIRE
TURNING LEAD 
INTO NUYEN
208    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p211 =====
INTRODUCTION
The ideals of alchemy have been around for a long 
time. It gained popularity as a pseudoscientific attempt 
to change mundane metals into precious ones. Trans-
mutation and elemental magic have their roots in al-
chemy. Since the Awakening, alchemy has also been 
used for retrieving reagents. Enchanting skills have 
progressed from foci and fetishes to other permanent 
magical items and the pairing of magic and technology 
known as “manatech.” More than sixty years of dab-
bling and esoteric research have produced a wide va-
riety of items, with some presented in Shadowrun, Fifth 
Edition (pp. 304–306, SR5) and here.
ALCHEMY BASICS: 
THE PREPARATION
From potions to flying carpets to scrolls containing 
words of power, legends have told of miracles wrought 
through the skills of the enchanter. Since the Awaken-
ing, such items can be created in the Sixth World as 
preparations. Preparations, like almost all magic, require 
a lynchpin, which channels magical energies from the 
astral plane to the physical plane. With preparations, the 
lynchpin is not only the words and images used but also 
the object that accompanies them. Anchored spells and 
foci contain a lynchpin that acts as the conduit for magic; 
when casting a spell, the magician himself is considered 
the lynchpin. And like geeking the mage, destroying a 
lynchpin breaks the magic. Damage to a preparation, 
even a scratch, can destroy the object’s lynchpin prop-
erties and release the magic within. The object itself may 
still be functional, but the prepared magic is gone. This is 
a preparation’s primary weakness.
Many alchemists have attempted to use a prepara-
tion as “manatech” weapon. They soon discovered that 
bullets and other high-velocity projectiles make poor 
preparations as they or the natural materials used in the 
preparation are scratched, heated, and/or deformed 
when fired. Low-velocity projectiles like arrows and 
knives have better success. Usually a command trigger 
is used: the magician’s partner fires the projectile, and 
the magician activates the preparation’s trigger. Con-
tact triggers carry inherent risk to the projectile’s firer, 
and if the projectile misses, odds are it will be too dam-
aged to act as a lynchpin or will remain live and po-
tentially trigger when a friendly or a bystander touches 
it. With a command trigger, even a prepared shot that 
misses can still be effective if it’s connected to an ar-
ea-effect spell.
Alchemical preparations are not as smart as anchored 
spells (p. 152). Once the trigger condition has been met, 
the preparation (not the magician) sustains the spell for 
a finite duration, which cannot be stopped unless a ma-
gician dispels the spell early. The advantage of prepa-
rations is they remain in a suspended state that allows 
them to be transported through wards (see p. 297, SR5). 
Preparations are a single-use spell. Once the spell has 
been triggered, the preparation must be re-prepared to 
cast the spell again with the same trigger. Compared to 
traditional spellcasting, repeated use of preparations is 
impractical.
Basic preparations a magician learns represent ob-
jects inscribed or decorated with their tradition’s formu-
la for the alchemical spell. However, the idea of potions 
and poultices as preparations is not lost to alchemists. 
Studying advanced alchemy is required for learning how 
to combine ingredients into a preparation (see p. 218) or 
magical compounds.
ORICHALCUM, THE 
STANDARD OF REAGENTS
According to Platonic legend, the priest-kings of an-
cient Atlantis discovered orichalcum, but by Plato’s 
time it was known only by name. This orange-gold alloy 
is utterly absurd from any metallurgical standpoint, as 
only alchemy can create it. For a brief time during the 
passing of Halley’s comet, orichalcum could be found 
in the earth. This came as a surprise to alchemists and 
parageologists who believed orichalcum could not 
occur naturally. The orichalcum rush was short-lived, 
however. After Halley’s comet passed, the minable 
veins of orichalcum disappeared. Some suspect that 
the ore’s discovery was coincidental to the passing of 
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    209
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p212 =====
Halley’s comet and miners had actually unearthed ar-
cheological remnants of a very old age.
Scientific examination is difficult because spectro-
scopic analysis breaks orichalcum down into its com-
ponent mundane metals. Orichalcum possesses many 
of the physical properties of gold, such as being dense 
and highly malleable. It alloys easily with iron, making 
it preferred for weapon foci construction. Aqua regia 
dissolves orichalcum, but the magical metal can be re-
claimed.
A magician can create a single dram of orichalcum 
with the Alchemy skill. It takes thirty drams of radical 
reagents: ten of gold, ten of copper, and ten of cinna-
bar. The reagents circulate in an alchemical lab for an 
average of twenty-eight days, with different traditions 
adding or subtracting a day or two. Hermetics tend to 
have formulae relating to the orbit of the moon, which 
is twenty-seven days, while most shamanistic traditions 
adhere to a full twenty-nine-day lunar cycle—from new 
moon to new moon. Regardless of the time, this circu-
lation involves the slow heating, cooling, blending, and 
precipitation of the reagents; any faster and the magic 
is lost. The magician must tend the circulation by check-
ing the process and adjusting things every ten hours or 
so. Again, hermetic mages and more modern traditions 
tend to adopt the industrial revolution’s work shift of 
eight hours, while shamanistic traditions follow a twelve-
hour schedule and tend to the circulation at sunrise and 
again at sunset. After the circulation time, the magician 
completes the cool-down process, which results in one 
coin-size dram of orichalcum from the gases and ashes 
of the reagents. Note that the amount of orichalcum is 
small compared to the amount of materials used in its 
creation. Magicians have attempted to collect and con-
dense the remaining vapors into more orichalcum, but 
this is just as hazardous as failing to create orichalcum 
in the first place. Failure to create orichalcum presents a 
risk of magical and neurological damage from alchemi-
cal lead vapors produced by the slag.
CREATING REFINED  
AND RADICAL REAGENTS
A magician can use the Alchemy skill to distill raw 
reagents into refined reagents and radical reagents. 
Refined reagents are a step up from raw reagents col-
lected from the field. Radical reagents are powerful, at 
least for reagents. Refined and radical reagents open 
more options for the Enchanting skill.
To distill a batch of raw reagents into refined reagents, 
the alchemist must circulate ten reagents in an alchem-
ical lab for around ten hours. Again, hermetic and mod-
ern traditions have adopted the industrial eight-hour 
work shift for their formulae, while shamanistic tradi-
tions have a slower, twelve-hour process tied to sunrise 
and sunset. At the end of this circulation, the alchemist 
makes an Alchemy + Magic [Astral] (3) Test. Success re-
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
QUICK ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS 
ABOUT PREPARATIONS (PP. 304–306, SR5)
•	
A preparation sustains the magic for the spell through the 
lynchpin (p. 304, SR5).
•	
A preparation that is not active is considered a sympathetic 
link (p. 146) to the magician who created it.
•	
Only one preparation can be activated per Combat Turn, using 
a Simple Action.
•	
When the preparation activates, it rolls Force + Potency 
[Force] as though its spell was just cast. Reagents do not 
change the limit for the preparation’s activation; they only 
increase potency during creation.
•	
Preparations become dual-natured only when active, so they 
cannot be triggered from the astral plane.
•	
A preparation can be disenchanted through contact with 
the object.
•	
Once the prepared spell is triggered, it can be dispelled or 
resisted like any other spell.
•	
A preparation can only handle one alchemical spell at a time.
•	
Once triggered, a preparation’s magic is released. 
•	
Preparations with a contact trigger affect the magician and 
opponent alike after the magician completes the preparation 
and stops touching the preparation. This is similar to the delay 
from a hand grenade.
•	
As with a successful touch attack, the subject of a contact-
triggered preparation cannot dodge the attack and can only 
resist the effect.
•	
If the preparation takes even a single box of Physical damage, 
the magic potential is lost. 
•	
Once triggered, the spell cannot be stopped unless it is 
dispelled or its duration ends.
CREATING ORICHALCUM
At the end of the circulation, the magician must make an Alchemy 
+ Magic [Astral] (3) Test. Failure to meet the threshold of this test 
consumes the reagents but results in alchemical slag (unusable for 
magic purposes). Success produces one dram of orichalcum.
With a failure, the magician must make a Body + Magic 
(3) Test to resist the detrimental effects of radical lead vapors. 
Failing this test means the character suffers the occasional 
effects of disorientation (p. 409, SR5) from hallucinations. 
Each net deficit results in eight hours of hallucinations. This 
disorientation isn’t continuous, but it occurs during stressful or 
long events in that time period; exactly how this madness plays 
out is up to the gamemaster. Every subsequent failure to create 
orichalcum permanently adds an additional eight hours to the 
next orichalcum-creation failure. This represents the slow spiral 
into alchemical madness.
210    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p213 =====
sults in one dram of refined reagents, and the raw re-
agents’ magic is used up. Failure to meet the threshold 
means that some of the reagents’ magic escaped. The 
failure difference to the threshold is how many raw re-
agents were consumed and have to be replaced when 
trying again. A critical glitch in this test means that all 
the raw reagents were wasted and the magician needs a 
new batch to start over.
Refined reagents can be distilled into radical reagents 
by using the same method: every ten full drams of re-
fined reagents distill into one dram of radical reagents.
TALISMONGER SHOP  
(ALL SALES FINAL!)
Besides the usual reagents and foci, all sorts of products 
can be created by a magician skilled in enchanting. While 
all these products can be used by any magician, those 
produced with the Artificing skill must be attuned before 
they can be functional. This is an Intuition + Magic [Astral] 
(5, 1 hour) Extended Test. An attuned item is considered 
a sympathetic link to the magician when used in ritual 
magic (p. 121). The base Potency of purchased items is 6.
AQUA FICTUS
A fool’s gold solution that can be used to make false re-
agents or make an object such as an alchemical prepa-
ration or a ritual circle appear to be magical. Aqua fictus 
looks like a swirling metallic solution that emits occa-
sional flashes of light. Any item coated with aqua fictus 
appears to glow with a concentrated-mana aura like that 
of reagents. This trick is difficult to detect. A successful 
Alchemy + Magic [Mental] (3) Test lets a magician no-
tice the false magic coating on a mundane object. Sales 
of such items are hit or miss because of the variety of 
reagents required, and the coating fades entirely after 
twelve hours. This solution is used in the creation of fake 
magical items, such as a paper lotus (p. 215).
AQUA FORTIS
This substance detects traces of orichalcum and other 
true elements. An eight-ounce spray bottle can cover 
one square meter. Any traces of orichalcum left be-
hind, such as from spilled aqua regia, glow gold. Other 
Awakened elements glow violet. Aqua fortis allows the 
user to Observe in Detail (p. 165, SR5) to see if orichal-
cum or other Awakened elements are present. The 
gamemaster determines the threshold of the test.
AQUA REGIA
This solution can dissolve orichalcum without dam-
aging the metal’s magical properties. This makes the 
material very easy to transport discreetly. Eight ounces 
of aqua regia can dissolve 1 dram of orichalcum. Aqua 
regia is a corrosive acid (p. 170, SR5) capable of dis-
solving any metal. The base Damage Value is 14P with 
an AP of –4.
To extract orichalcum once it has been dissolved in 
aqua regia, the magician must subject the solution to 
near-freezing temperatures. This breaks down the for-
mula and neutralizes the alchemical properties. Once 
the neutralization begins, the orichalcum begins to pre-
cipitate. The aqua regia then vaporizes into yellowish 
green smoke and dissipates.
AQUA VITAE
More of an alchemist’s joke, aqua vitae is an alcoholic dis-
tillation created through alchemical means. Since soy is 
the prevalent food staple in the Sixth World, alchemists 
have worked out ways to distill liquor from just about any-
thing (which gives “hair of the dog” a whole new mean-
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
MISPLACED MAGIC ITEMS
There are days when you’ll find yourself drunk at a bar 
and your misplaced wand ends up being used by the brew 
master as a fruit skewer in some lady’s cocktail. So how does 
that affect practicing magic with that wand? Besides the odd 
citrus smell, there is a chance that the ambient mana levels 
caused discord in the item, which forces the magician to re-
attune the item in order to use it again. He does not, however, 
need to re-spend Karma. In general, if the attuned item is not 
in the magician’s possession or at a location where he has an 
active lodge or circle, the gamemaster should make a daily 
test of Background Count x 2 (3) (for more information on 
background counts, see p. 30). If successful, the item is no 
longer attuned to the magician.
Adept-attuned items (p. 124) and foci may also feel discord 
if lost or left behind, and such items will lose their attunement 
bonuses until they are re-attuned. Adepts re-attune items the 
same way magicians do.
MAGICIANS’ CURRENCY
While nuyen is always accepted, such transactions 
are easy to track, and some unlicensed or unregistered 
magicians prefer an alternative currency that is accepted by 
all practitioners of magic. To fill this need, small vials of aqua 
regia containing a single dram of orichalcum are often used in 
bartering for magical goods. Half vials are rare but acceptable 
for smaller exchanges. While orichalcum cannot be used as 
a reagent in this state, it can be used by anyone with magic 
talent once it has precipitated from the solution.
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    211
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p214 =====
ing). Such brews are more potent than standard alcohol. 
Aqua vitae has an Addiction Rating of 4 (p. 414, SR5)
ASTRAL POWDER
Astral powder, also known as fairy dust, is attracted to 
sustained magic like static cling. Astral powder was de-
veloped as an alternative to using FAB (fluorescing astral 
bacteria) to detect astral entities, since some consider 
FAB an environmental hazard regardless of the genetic 
variant. Astral powder clings to spirits, astrally projecting 
beings, wards, and sustained or quickened spells. This 
allows non-Awakened characters to use an Observe in 
Detail action (p. 165, SR5) on such things, though the 
observer will not know exactly what the object is. For 
example, a person targeted with an Invisibility spell 
would look no different under astral powder than an as-
trally projecting magician would. The dispersal device 
is a paper sphere preparation, which is learned as part 
of astral powder’s formula. This sphere detonates after 
being thrown, and the astral powder contained within 
disperses a cloud with a three-meter radius.
Since astral powder is physical, it cannot move 
through other physical objects. If an astral spirit coated 
in astral powder goes through a wall, the powder stops 
at the wall. If a sustained spell is dropped, the powder 
also drops to the floor. Astral powder doesn’t glow like 
FAB, so visibility modifiers apply. Other conditions, such 
as rain, wash off the astral powder after a few minutes. 
Requires Psychometry (see p. 144).
FETISH
An alchemist can create a magical device that reduces 
Drain when cast with a spell suited to fetishes (p. 212). 
Such spells have to be learned specifically with the fe-
tish, meaning that a character would have to learn a spell 
twice if he wants to cast it both with and without a fetish. 
An alchemist needs 1 dram of radical reagents to make 
the fetish functional for magical use. A magician casting a 
fetish spell either through Spellcasting or Ritual Spellcast-
ing can reduce the Drain Value by 2 (to a minimum of 2).
GOVI
In the vodou traditions, govi are specially prepared clay 
pots to hold work loa (watcher spirits). The houngan 
shapes clay into a pot, etches it with images of their 
mait-tete, and paints it. Since 2057, govi have been 
created from glass bottles or other modern containers 
properly designed with vevers (symbolic images of the 
loa). Other traditions have taken up creating their own 
versions of govi to contain watchers. These brooches 
and talismans are marked with spiritual symbols of the 
magician’s tradition and incorporate a small compart-
ment to contain the watcher.
A govi is created like other preparations, with the 
govi’s Force determining the Force of the watcher it 
can contain. To determine Drain for the preparation, 
roll (Force of watcher x 2) test; the hits are Drain, plus 
any modifications for the trigger (p. 305, SR5). Roll 
separately to resist Drain for the Watcher Ritual Spell-
casting. Potency reduces by 1 point of Force per week, 
instead of the customary 1 per hour. The magician can 
offer (Potency x 25) drams of reagents after creation 
to prevent the govi’s Potency from reducing for half a 
year. This offering can be done every six months. Af-
ter creation, a watcher is created specifically for that 
govi. Only one spirit can be connected to a govi at a 
time. In the case of a watcher, the govi keeps the enti-
ty suspended within it, allowing the magician to break 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
PROFESSION: 
BREW MASTER WITCH/WARLOCK
With trids propagating the myths of love potions and good 
luck charms, alchemists are constantly approached to provide 
such items to mundanes. Unfortunately, magic doesn’t work 
exactly that way. The positive that grew from this myth is the 
alchemists’ Guild of Brew Masters. A brew master witch or 
warlock learns how to use alchemy to create his or her own 
alcoholic beverages and how to be a bartender, serving mixed 
drinks akin to mythical potions.
Several upscale bars hire brew master witches or warlocks 
to provide harmless entertainment with contact-triggered 
magical drinks. Love Potion Number Nine and Potions of Healing 
or Wishes are names for mixed drinks that the witch or warlock 
makes for the average Joe in the bar.
Guild members also learn how to brew more exotic aqua 
vitae. These brews have different magical properties than normal 
formulas. Such brews include Tír Alamestra, Japanese Toso, and 
Mediterranean Styx. These may not bring good luck, but to high-
paying clientele, the end result is worth the price.
FLUORESCING ASTRAL BACTERIA
Science has had some success in cultivating mana-sensitive 
bacteria strains as part of astral security. Three strains exist: 
FAB I, FAB II, and FAB III. The first strain dies when an astral form 
or magical force such as a spell passes through it. In death the 
bacteria release a chemical that can be seen with UV light. The 
second strain is dual-natured, making it difficult for astral forms 
to pass through it, and the displacement can be seen physically. 
The third strain was a mutation that actively seeks out and feeds 
on astral forms and can be lethal to dual-natured creatures.
212    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p215 =====
up the watcher’s allotted time. It also allows for quick 
use of a watcher without having to perform the ritual. 
Releasing a watcher from a govi is a Simple Action.
If a govi is destroyed, the watcher associated with it 
is also destroyed, whether it was residing in the govi or 
not. Govi can be found, but the watcher within can only 
be commanded by the magician who created it. A magi-
cian can attune a found govi, but the watcher associated 
with it is dispelled. Requires Invocation (see p. 147).
HAND OF GLORY 
The Hand of Glory is an alchemical formula found in the 
banned witchcraft book Compendium Maleficarum. This 
preparation’s lynchpin is the hand of a talented, de-
ceased individual (the formula romanticizes this as the 
hand of a hanged criminal, but any hand will do). This 
unique alchemical preparation allows the magician to 
use the remembered talent of the individual when per-
forming a task. In game terms, the Hand of Glory is tied 
to one physical Active skill known by the previous own-
er. The skill is limited by the Force of the ritual instead of 
any other limit, including Accuracy. Reagents used must 
be refined quality or better. When triggered, the magi-
cian can use the skill for a number of minutes equal to 
the Potency. The Hand of Glory, once created, is bonded 
to the magician and cannot be unbound until the Hand is 
destroyed or used. It also doesn’t lose Potency.
The Hand of Glory can be reused without re-prepar-
ing the item, but this requires the magician’s blood (and 
thus leads down the path to blood magic). Normally an 
object used in an alchemical preparation can be re-pre-
pared if it hasn’t been destroyed, but the Hand’s talent 
fades twenty-four hours after being used. In order for 
the Hand to remember its talent, the magician must take 
Physical damage with a DV equal to the preparation’s 
Force, then transfer his blood to the Hand to recharge it. 
This wound cannot be healed by magic.
The Compendium Maleficarum warns of trying to own 
more than one Hand of Glory, saying that the Hands 
may seek vengeance on their creator if not used—idle 
hands being the devils tools and all that. Requires Nec-
romancy (see p. 143).
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    213
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p216 =====
INANIMATE VESSEL 
PREPARATION
Preparing a vessel requires a number of radical re-
agents equal to five times the Force of the spirit that 
will possess or inhabit the vessel. Preparing a vessel is 
done in the same way as a standard preparation, with a 
minimum Force equal to the Force of the spirit that will 
enter the vessel. This creation is challenging to craft, as 
the magician’s Alchemy test must exceed the vessel’s 
Object Resistance (p. 295, SR5) or Force, whichever 
is greater. Time to complete is ten days minus the net 
hits from the Alchemy test (minimum of 1 day). Failure 
means that a number of reagents equal to the hits from 
the Opposed Test are lost and the magician has to start 
again. Requires Channeling (see p. 148).
MANA-SENSITIVE FILM PLATE
Modern magicians have updated the ancient process 
of daguerreotype photography, exchanging the essen-
tial chemical actions with an alchemical process. The 
layers of chemicals used are mana-sensitive, derived 
from various Awakened plants and animals, allowing 
auras, spirits, and even background count to be record-
ed on the plate. Mana-sensitive film plates are used 
with mortis optigrams and quicksilver cameras.
MORTIS OPTIGRAM
According to an old, oft-ignored theory, in death the 
eyes record the last moments of life. Necromancers 
have found good reason to believe this theory, and 
they can photograph such images on astral film by us-
ing a mortis optigram and the eyes of the deceased. 
The eyes are positioned to face the plate in the cam-
era. As the magician takes the picture, the last thing the 
eyes saw is captured on the mana-sensitive film plate. 
The process takes twenty minutes to complete.
The practice of using the mortis optigram varies 
greatly, as does the use of such an item as legal evi-
dence. In a criminal case, Tír Tairngire treats a mortis 
optigram no differently than any physical evidence. 
The UCAS and CAS permits law-enforcement forensic 
thaumaturgists to create mortis optigrams as part of an 
investigation, but the image is considered a valid lead 
rather than evidence. NAN governments don’t allow 
the creation of mortis optigrams in any instance due to 
claims that the process is an aberrant ritual. Amazonia is 
mixed, depending on the severity of the crime.
The mortis optigram is not always a reliable source 
of information, as the eyes may be closed at the time of 
death. Other issues include drugs or cybernetics. Note 
that cybereye replacements cannot be used in a mortis 
optigram. The resulting image is almost realistic and oddly 
three dimensional on the mana-sensitive plate. If the de-
ceased suffered from hallucinations, even ones induced by 
drugs, those hallucinations can appear on the plate. If the 
deceased had the ability to astrally perceive, astral space 
may also appear on the plate (see Quicksilver Camera, p. 
215). Astral photos from a mortis optigram are not pretty 
since they are tainted with echoes of pain and emotional 
turmoil. Requires Necromancy (see p. 143).
MYSTIC RESTRAINTS  
(CUFFS/MASK/JACKET)
For confining petty Awakened criminals, law-enforce-
ment officers use cuffs and hoods that distract the in-
carcerated with lights and sounds or use electric shock 
to keep twitchy fingers in line. For the hardened crimi-
nal magicians, however, police use individually tailored 
mystic restraints. The shape of these restraints acts 
like acupuncture that restricts the magician’s access to 
magic. Mystic restraints (cuffs, masks, or jackets) have 
to be crafted with the Artificing skill, using the same 
Force requirements as crafting a symbolic link. Perma-
nently creating the restraint requires 1 Karma.
Net hits from the Artificing Test determine the Force 
of the restraint, and the Force of the restraint reduces the 
Magic rating of the Awakened individual (including ad-
epts). Adepts restrained this way temporarily lose Pow-
er Points associated with Magic loss; they may choose 
which powers are affected. There are many pressure 
points to use, but each restraint is limited to how much 
Magic it can it restrain. While restraints are made for a 
specific individual, an existing restraint can be attuned to 
another individual, but it will be half as effective. This re-
quires an Intuition + Magic (5, 1 hour) Extended Test and 
requires either assensing the subject or having a material 
link of the subject to be used in attuning the restraints.
Mystic cuffs are made of steel or titanium and can 
have a maximum Force of 8; they are ineffective if the 
subject has one or more cyberarms. Masks are made of 
steel and leather or ceramic and have a maximum Force 
of 12. Similar to a straitjacket, a mystic jacket can have 
embedded brass studs on the inside and woven symbols 
on the outside. A mystic jacket can have a Force up to 18.
If the subject has the Flux metamagic (p. 150), he can 
reduce the effectiveness of the mystic restraints by his 
initiate grade while his aura is in flux.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
DEAD VESSELS AND SPIRITS
While a corpse can be prepared for inhabitation, most 
spirits don’t like the concept of being confined to such a thing. 
Necromancers say “the bones rub them the wrong way.” Some 
mages find that the spirit inhabiting a corpse will do or say odd 
things as they channel some of the memories of the previous 
owner. Such is the risk of creating zombies or corps cadavres.
214    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p217 =====
PAPER LOTUS
Not all talismongers are nice or play fair. The ability to 
falsify magical material for financial gain is a strong mo-
tivator. Besides the few pre-Awakening artifacts that 
have shown up, “paper lotus” is a general term for using 
the Artificing skill (p. 306, SR5) to create a counterfeit 
magical item. These magical items are indistinguishable 
from the real thing unless an observer passes a Percep-
tion Test (see below), but they cannot be used for any 
magical purpose. These magical items are considered to 
have the Counterfeit quality (p. 197, Run & Gun). If the 
item can be bonded, the bonding will fail when attempt-
ing to spend Karma, and the item will be exposed as 
counterfeit. Fake reagents don’t do anything when ex-
pended. In both cases, the illusion eventually expires, so 
any magician can see that the object is fake.
When the Artificing ritual is complete, the number of 
net hits becomes the threshold for an observer deter-
mining if the item is a fake through a Perception Test. The 
Force of the Artificing ritual determines how many days 
the item appears to be magical. Paper lotus creators run 
the risk of someone detecting their items as a fake and 
then using them in ritual magic as retribution against the 
artificer. These items are sympathetic links while the illu-
sion lasts. Requires Masking (see p. 149).
QUICKSILVER CAMERA
The quicksilver camera is a handheld camera with a 
built-in collapsible tripod. It can hold five mana-sensitive 
film plates, with only one being exposed at a time. This 
camera can take an astral photograph in two minutes.
Early astral photography required several hours of 
exposure, but six years ago, technology and thaumatur-
gical research reduced the exposure time to only thirty 
minutes per mana-sensitive plate. These plates allowed 
anyone to take a picture of the astral world, and while 
beautiful enough to have a gallery at the MoMA in New 
York, they capture a very blurry view of astral space. As-
tral space is very dynamic, so it cannot sit still for thirty 
minutes. Also, the mana-sensitive plate could be over-
exposed since mana isn’t tied to light exposure, and 
whole sets of plates could be ruined if an astral entity 
moved through the camera during exposure.
To improve the process, alchemists altered the plates 
so that the Awakened photographer acted as the plate’s 
catalyst. To take a photo, the photographer removes the 
cap to expose the plate to visible light and activates the 
plate’s chemicals to record the astral world. Once acti-
vated, the exposure process cannot be stopped, and it 
completes in two minutes. Moving the camera before 
the full exposure time ruins the photograph (astrally and 
visibly). One the exposure time has elapsed, the astral 
photo automatically develops with a secondary alchem-
ical process.
FAKE MAGIC ITEMS
ITEM
MINIMUM FORCE OF
ARTIFICING RITUAL
UNITS OF AQUA 
FICTUS REQUIRED
Reagent (10 drams)
2
1
Fetish
4
1
Refined Reagent (10 drams)
4
2
Quicksilver Camera
5
1
Radical Reagent (10 drams)
5
4
Alchemical Preparation
6
1/2 Force
Focus
8
1/2 Force
Artifact
*
*
*Gamemaster should decide the Force of the ritual required, as artifacts are unique. In many 
cases, additional requirements/reagents are needed in falsifying an artifact.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
MAGECUFF AND MAGEMASK
Magecuffs are crafted with glomoss (a form of 
bioluminescent plant that glows in response to magic or 
astral entities) and a light-triggered shock device. If the cuffs 
detect spellcasting or astral projection, the cuffs subject the 
incarcerated individual to a 15S electrical attack (p.170, SR5).
A magemask is a plastic hood and gag that cuts off 
the incarcerated individual’s line of sight and produces a 
combination of light and sounds that disorient the magician 
and deters astral projection. Attempting astral projection while 
wearing a magemask requires a Willpower + Intuition (4) Test.
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    215
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p218 =====
Physically the image is in color as seen with a normal 
camera but with iridescent marks overlaying the image. 
These swirls and spots represent the alchemical reac-
tion to recording the astral plane, not what mundanes 
believe are auras and spirits captured on film. Viewing 
the picture astrally reveals another image: a snapshot of 
the flow of astral energies at that point in time. This astral 
image captures astral signatures, background count lev-
els, and the auras of wards, sustained spells, Awakened 
individuals, spirits, critters, preparations, and bonded 
foci. The photograph can be replicated through alchem-
ical means. The auras in the photo can only be read and 
recognized through astral perception. 
Characters may attempt to use Assensing to ana-
lyze any astral being, aura, or signature captured in an 
original astral photo; the threshold for an Assensing 
Test is 2 more than normal, and the limit for the test is 
fixed at 4 due to the camera’s limitations. Astral entities 
or objects that pass through the area while the photo 
is being taken show up as ghostly images, but no in-
formation can be gleaned from them. Copies of astral 
photos also lose a level of detail, making the fixed limit 
for the Assensing Test 3.
Since astral photographs capture auras, the plate 
can serve as a sympathetic link (p. 145) to any entity or 
object that remained in the shot for the duration of the 
exposure. Duplications of the original photograph can 
be used as a symbolic link (p. 216), with the photograph 
meeting the “Creator has met the target” condition. An 
original astral photograph’s aura can be wiped through 
smudging (p. 136). The wiped photograph is treated the 
same as a copy, though the photograph is considered to 
have a Force 12 psychic imprint.
SHOFAR
The shofar, which is a more impressive name than “the 
horn that scares spirits,” derives from the Judean tradi-
tion of exorcism. The shofar’s sound causes spirits to be 
shaken and leave the area. When using it, make an Op-
posed Test pitting the spirit’s Force + Willpower against 
the shofar’s Force x 2. Materialized or manifested spirits 
that fail the Opposed Test stop what they are doing and 
retreat back to astral space, wasting the service they 
are in process of fulfilling. Materialized or manifested 
free spirits attempt to leave the area as if affected by 
the Fear power for a number of Combat Turns equal to 
the shofar’s Potency. Spirits inhabiting a living or non-
living vessel are only distracted by the noise and suffer 
a –2 dice penalty to all actions for that Combat Turn. 
The shofar effect is instantaneous, but after activating 
it, the item disintegrates. The shofar has a longer shelf 
life than other compounds, as its Potency reduces by 1 
per week. Requires Exorcism (see p. 148).
SYMBOLIC LINK
From effigies to drawings, a symbolic link is a represen-
tation of a spell’s target. The most notorious of sym-
bolic links are voodoo dolls, which a magician can use 
to inflict curses upon the individual the doll represents. 
The magician uses the Artificing skill to create a sym-
bolic link, but the required Force depends on how well 
the magician knows the subject. The symbolic link is 
viable for a number of days equal to the net hits in the 
Artificing Test. The downside to symbolic links is that 
the object contains the creator’s astral signature while 
the link remains viable. This means that a voodoo doll 
can be used as a material link against the creator. Re-
quires Psychometry (see p. 144).
SYMBOLIC LINK CREATION
CONDITION
REQUIRED FORCE
Creator knows the target intimately 
or has a material link
2
Creator has assensed the target or 
has an original astral photograph
4
Creator has a copy of an astral 
photograph of the subject
8
Creator has met the target
12
Creator is personally unfamiliar with 
the target
16
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
216    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p219 =====
MAGIC ITEM PRICE INDEX
ITEM
SKILL
THRESHOLD
BASE TIME
MATERIAL 
COST
AVAILABILITY
PURCHASE 
COST
AgHexHex
—
—
—
—
8
Force x 500¥
Aqua fictus
Alchemy
3
10 hours
850¥
8
1,000¥
Aqua fortis
Alchemy
3
10 hours
43¥
4
50¥
Aqua regia
Alchemy
3
10 hours
85¥
5
100¥
Aqua vitae
Alchemy
3
4 hours
13¥
1
15¥
Astral powder
Alchemy
4
2 day
70¥
4
120¥
BDNB
—
—
—
—
8
Force x 500¥
FAB I
—
—
—
—
10
50¥ per cubic 
meter
FAB II
—
—
—
—
16R
Force x 50¥ per 
cubic meter
FAB III
—
—
—
—
20F
Force x 25,000¥ 
per cubic meter
Fetish
Artificing
2
1 day
1,700¥
4
2,000¥
Govi
—
—
—
—
Force 
Force x 50¥
Hand of Glory
—
—
—
—
(Force x Force)
R
Force x 1,500¥
Lot’s Curse
—
—
—
—
14F
Force x 1,000¥
Magecuff
—
—
—
—
5
1,000¥
Magemask
—
—
—
—
2R
200¥
Mana-sensitive 
film plate
Alchemy
4
3 days
21¥
4
25¥
Mortis optigram
Artificing
4
1 week
2,550¥
6
3,000¥
Mystic cuff
—
—
—
—
(Force)R
Force x 200¥
Mystic jacket
—
—
—
—
(Force)R
Force x 500¥
Mystic mask
—
—
—
—
(Force)R
Force x 400¥
Quicksilver 
camera
Artificing
4
1 week
2,125¥
4
2,500¥
Sage
—
—
—
—
(Force x 6)R
Force x 800¥
Shofar
—
—
—
—
Force
Force x 800¥
Spirit strength
—
—
—
—
(Force x 6)R
Force x 3,000¥
Symbolic link
Artificing
—
1 day
—
—
—
Witch’s moss
—
—
—
—
(Force x 6)R
Force x 1,600¥
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    217
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p220 =====
ADVANCED 
ALCHEMY
Initiation into the advanced alchemy metamagic (p. 
152) allows the magician to create more specific trig-
gers, including a delayed timer and specific target con-
tact, to be added. It also allows the magician to create 
magical compounds with unique properties.
MAGICAL COMPOUNDS
Some preparations are very unique in design, requir-
ing specific reagents in its creation. While they can be 
similar to other alchemical preparations, these magical 
compounds require specific refined reagents to create 
and, if the magician wishes, to improve Potency. For ex-
ample, a magician creating the sage compound must 
have at least 1 refined dram of lichen reagent. If he 
prepares the sage at Force 4 but wants a Potency of 8, 
he must add an additional 8 drams of refined reagents. 
Magicians who know the formula for these prepara-
tions are leery of giving up such secrets, so starting 
characters are not allowed to learn these formulas. 
Magical compounds still use alchemical preparation 
rules in their creation (p. 304, SR5). 
While inactive, a magical compound can be dis-
pelled like any other alchemical preparation. When ac-
tive, these compounds are trickier to dispel. The magi-
cian must be in contact with the compound and can use 
the Disenchant skill to resist or reverse the compound’s 
effect. The compound can resist with twice its Force. 
Each net hit against the magical compound reduces 
its Force. If the Force is reduced to 0, the compound 
no longer functions, and its aftereffects begin. For oth-
er compounds, the secondary effects still apply for the 
compound’s complete duration until healing is applied. 
Magical compounds have an active duration that lasts 
(Potency x 10) minutes. Inactive magic compounds de-
grade slower, reducing Potency by 1 every day.
EMPOWERED MAGICAL 
COMPOUNDS
These compounds give the subject a spell-like ability 
or critter power, which the magician can turn off with a 
Simple Action. The power lasts for either (Potency x 10) 
minutes or until it has been dispelled. When the subject 
uses an ability, the test uses the preparation’s Potency 
in place of Spellcasting and the preparation’s Force in 
place of Magic, with the usual Force for the limit. 
Every time the spell is activated after the initial ac-
tivation, the subject feels strain from the spell’s Drain 
Value based on the Force of the preparation. For critter 
powers, Drain equals the preparation’s Force. The magi-
cian resists the Drain Value with Willpower alone or per 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
FORBIDDEN KNOWLEDGE
There are several magical books that law enforcement 
tries to keep out of public hands. These are similar to guides 
on how to get away with murder or how to make a dirty bomb, 
but for questionable magical activity. Legal actions vary for 
those caught with one of these tomes, but consequences 
can involve the magician’s license to practice magic being 
revoked or being added to a security watch list. They aren’t 
exactly instructional guides on how to do blood magic. 
Instead they’re like a gateway drug that gives the magician a 
little taste of the dark stuff.
COMPENDIUM MALEFICARUM
The Compendium Maleficarum is a handbook on 
necromancy and other dark rituals. The Maleficarum was 
originally published in Italy in 1608, and a magician named 
Lopiccolo partially revised the tome in 2041, applying modern 
black-magic terminology and techniques in his translation. 
Lopiccolo did not complete his revision, unfortunately; he 
died horrifically while attempting to revise the ritual on page 
251 of the tome.
DE PRAESTIGIIS DAEMONIUM
This is a handbook on witchcraft—the bad kind. Originally 
published in 1563, it was first translated from Latin to English 
in 1928, and no one revised it for the Sixth World until 2028. 
De Praestigiis Daemonium discusses curses, potions, and 
avoiding being drowned or burned at the stake.
MORTUUS MALUM
First bound in the twelfth century, Mortuus Malum 
collects Roman accounts from Gallic, Celtic, and other 
tribal rituals as the Roman legions conquered Europe from 
60–33 BC. These rituals didn’t involve your garden-variety 
free spirits: they were meant for calling down demons to 
disembowel the Roman army. Demons didn’t actually attack 
the Romans during their conquest of Europe; however, like 
many mystical items, scholars believe there’s a grain of truth 
to Mortuus Malum’s rituals.
99 BOTTLED DEMONS ON THE WALL
Published circa 2058, this modern neo-anarchist book 
covers using alchemy and ritual sorcery for terrorist activities. 
A similar book is The Neo-Anarchist’s Guide to Street Magic 
from 2065, which offers tips and tricks for using sorcery and 
conjuring for crime and profit.
218    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p221 =====
the magician’s tradition. If the subject is sustaining the 
spell or the power is considered always on, he suffers a 
–2 penalty to all actions. At the end of the spell’s dura-
tion or when it is dispelled, the compound’s aftereffects 
take effect. This aftereffect lasts for an equivalent orig-
inal duration (not the duration before it was dispelled) 
and cannot be treated even by magic.
Other magical compounds have a negative effect in-
stead of benefitting the user. These magical compounds 
either target a subject with a spell, or the compound 
reduces an Awakened creature’s ability by the com-
pound’s Potency. While this negative effect is active, the 
secondary effect is untreatable.
Magical compounds unfortunately don’t function 
well in combination with augmentations. When used on 
such a subject, reduce both the compound’s Force and 
Potency by the amount of Essence the subject has lost 
to augmentations.
AGHEXHEX
AgHexHex, more formally known as silver hexamag-
nohexaphosphate, is a magical alchemical compound 
found to have a detrimental effect against Awakened 
creatures capable of transforming into vapor particles 
(Mist Form), keeping them corporeal.
Trigger: Contact
Effect: Once in contact, if the Potency exceeds the 
target’s Magic attribute, the Mist Form power is negated 
completely for the duration of the compound. If the tar-
get is using Mist Form when sprayed by AgHexHex, the 
target forcibly reverts to solid form for that Combat Turn 
regardless of Potency, causing (Force + 4) Stun damage.
Aftereffect: Nauseated side effect
Required Reagent: Refined silver
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
TRIGGERS FOR PREPARATIONS AND ANCHORED SPELLS
COMMAND (P. 305, SR5)
Anchored Version: A magician can trigger this spell with 
a Simple Action, regardless of range or line of sight. If the 
preparation is out of sight, then the magician cannot chose the 
target of the activated spell.
Advanced Command (Delay Timer): When the magician sets 
up a Command trigger, he can choose to delay its activation for up 
to 60 seconds.  The length of the time delay must be chosen when 
the preparation is created. This trigger adds 2 to the Drain Value 
of the preparation’s creation.
CONTACT (P. 305, SR5)
Anchored Version: This trigger can be activated either 
when a living aura, a previously assensed aura, or any aura 
not belonging to the spellcaster comes into direct physical or 
astral contact with the anchor. Note that without the lynchpin, 
the anchor is invisible on the physical plane and takes up space 
equal to the caster’s size.
Advanced Contact (Target-Specific): Creating a preparation 
with this contact trigger requires a material link to the subject. After 
successful creation, the preparation only activates on contact with 
the person associated with the material link. This trigger adds 1 to 
the Drain Value of the preparation’s creation. Such a preparation 
can be used as a sympathetic link to both the preparer and the 
subject it was created for. This trigger is for preparations only.
Advanced Contact (Gender/Metatype-Specific): This contact 
trigger allows the preparation to only trigger when touched by 
someone of either a specific gender (which includes a full range 
of genders rather than the traditional binary two; people should be 
treated as the gender with which they identify) or metatype. This 
trigger adds +3 to the Drain Value of the preparation’s creation.
TIMED (P. 305, SR5)
Anchored Version: A timed trigger can range from 1 Combat 
Turn up to (Force) months before the spell activates.
BACKGROUND COUNT (ANCHORED SPELLS ONLY)
This trigger activates if the background count of the area is 
modified in any way: raised, lowered, or undergoes an aspected 
change (see Background Count, p. 30). At the gamemaster’s 
discretion, any magic use in the area may create sufficient minor, 
temporary background fluctuations to trigger the construct. This 
trigger adds 1 to the Drain Value of the anchored spell.
DETECTION SPELL (ANCHORED SPELLS ONLY)
If a Detection spell is part of the anchor, the triggered spell 
can only target someone or something in direct physical or astral 
contact with it. In addition, if a Detection spell serves as the 
trigger, this spell can aim the anchored spell at any valid target it 
detects within range. This second spell must be quickened (p. 326, 
SR5) and linked to the anchor. This trigger adds +1 to the Drain 
Value of the anchored spell.
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    219
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p222 =====
BDNB
Also known as “Bad Dog! No Biscuit!,” this compound 
is commonly used for hunting Awakened game. 
Trigger: Contact 
Effect: Reduce the subject’s Magic attribute by the 
Force of the compound when the subject uses the Par-
alyzing Howl power (p. 399, SR5). If the Force exceeds 
the target’s Magic attribute, the power is negated com-
pletely for the duration of the compound.
Aftereffect: Unable to Speak side effect
Required Reagent: Refined hell hound’s tongue 
(Cynoglossum magiofficinale)
LOT’S CURSE
Lot’s Curse is a poison made from the Awakened Go-
morrah tree, whose fruit causes calcification of flesh 
and death when eaten.
Trigger: Contact
Effect: The target is subjected to a Petrify spell. Even 
if the target resists the immediate petrification, the sec-
ondary effect is still petrifying the target from the inside. 
Upon the target’s death, the petrification becomes per-
manent. If the victim is still alive at the end of the dura-
tion, they return to normal.
Aftereffect: Slow Death side effect
Required Reagent: Refined Gomorrah apple
SAGE
Trigger: Contact 
Effect: The target is empowered with the Detect 
Magic, Extended spell. 
Aftereffect: Both eyes suffer the Blinded side effect
Required Reagent: Refined Cladonia stellaris lichen 
from the North American tundra
SPIRIT STRENGTH
Trigger: Contact 
Effect: The target is empowered with the Hardened 
Mystic Armor power (p. 397, SR5). 
Aftereffect: Reduce the target’s Physical limit to 1 
for an equivalent duration.
Required Reagent: Refined teonanácatl mushroom 
from Aztlan
WITCH’S MOSS
Trigger: Contact
Effect: The target is empowered with the Paralyzing 
Touch power (p. 400, SR5).
Aftereffect: Both arms suffers the Broken Grip and 
Weak Side side effects.
Required Reagent: Refined barghest blood
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
220    TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN >>
MAGICAL COMPOUND SIDE EFFECTS
This is a list of side effects that can be applied to the 
user/target of a magical compound. 
BLINDED
One eye: –4 all actions involving sight. Two eyes: –8 on all 
actions, no vision-based Perception tests allowed.
STUNNED
Subtract 10 from Initiative score at the beginning of the 
Combat Turn while the effect is active.
DEAFENED
One ear: –2 all actions involving hearing. Two ears: –4 on 
all actions involving hearing, no hearing-based Perception 
tests allowed.
UNABLE TO SPEAK
The target loses the ability to form understandable 
speech. He can mutter, gesture, groan, and drool, but 
everything they try to speech comes out as gibberish.
BLEED OUT
The target suffers 1P damage, unresisted, for every 
action she performs that does not use the First Aid skill.
ONE-ARMED BANDIT 
The target’s arm is ineffective, and he is unable to perform 
any actions with that limb.
WEAK SIDE 
The target suffers a –2 dice penalty on all melee Defense 
Tests while the affected arm is ineffective.
BROKEN GRIP
The target is unable to maintain her grip on anything, 
and she suffers a –1 dice pool penalty per injured arm for all 
Subduing or Clinching attacks. Any item in her hand drops.
FATIGUED 
The target makes a Damage Resistance test using Body 
against a DV of (Potency)S. This is a one-time side effect.
WINDED 
The target is unable to perform Sprint actions.
NAUSEATED
Make a Body + Willpower (4) Test. Each hit less than 
the threshold causes the target to double over and begin 
vomiting for one Combat Turn. A vomiting target suffers a –4 
dice pool penalty to all actions.
SLOW DEATH
Physical Damage only; causes internal injury. Target 
suffers unresisted 2P damage every 1 minute.
SLOWED 
The target’s movement, both Walk and Run rate, is halved.
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p223 =====
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< TURNING LEAD INTO NUYEN    221
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p224 =====
The charging piasma swung its massive claw at the 
chest of its target—a troll runner called Hammer. Mov-
ing faster than the Awakened bear, the cybered troll 
shifted his body to the right, narrowly avoiding the vio-
lent blow. With the silver-haired bear drawn into a vul-
nerable position by its own inertia, the runner put all his 
weight behind the swing of his axe, burying it into the 
back of the enraged bear. The bear roared ferociously in 
pain as blood splattered everything nearby, including 
the troll. The piasma staggered backwards, and after a 
second or two, aggressively charged again at its prey, 
razor-sharp tusks lowered and ready to swing up and 
into vulnerable flesh. 
“Chummer, are you sure this is the only way to collect 
this pelt? This seems a bit extreme to me,” gasped 
Hammer as he scrambled to get out of the way of the 
piasma’s massive maw as the bear snapped at him. 
“Quite sure,” replied the calm voice of the human 
onlooker, standing just inside the camp. “You’re no good 
at using bows. And simply shooting the beast using a 
gun would contaminate the pelt with gunpowder residue 
and metallic residue. Enchanting with it after that would 
simply be impossible for me. Same thing goes with 
tranquilizers and other drugs. This animal must be killed 
with a properly prepared melee weapon per United 
Talismonger Association regulations, which in this case 
is the axe you are wielding.”
“How about magic?” the female elf called Silver 
asked. “I could simply stun this bear out with a spell, and 
make this a simple kill for him.” 
“I’m sorry, my dear,” the talismonger replied. 
“Your astral signature could also affect the pelt’s aura 
negatively, potentially ruining the specimen for me. This 
needs to be a clean kill. If you want to be paid, this is how 
it needs to go down.”
The piasma charged once more at the troll. This 
time, the piasma connected with its claw, ripping into 
Hammer’s left shoulder with its claw and slamming 
the troll to the ground. Despite the obvious gash in his 
arm and shoulder, the troll rolled away from the bear 
towering over him on its hind legs and scrambled back 
to his feet with blood trickling liberally down the left arm 
of his body armor. 
“And I’m sorry, there’s nowhere on that bear that I can 
jack into. So I’m pretty much useless here,” chimed in the 
team’s hacker, Megapulse. “Sorry, Hammer.” 
“That’s all fine and good, but I also don’t want to see 
my chummer get killed,” Silver replied, simply ignoring 
their decker. After a few seconds, Silver asked, “Well, 
what if I were to cast on him? Would an armor spell on 
Hammer be out of the question?”
The talismonger thought about it for a few seconds. 
“No, I don’t see how that would screw things up.”
Without waiting for further explanation or permission, 
Silver cast her spell, enveloping the troll in a blue, 
translucent energy field, just as the bear swatted the troll 
again with its paw, this time connecting with the troll’s 
center mass. The troll once again went skittering along 
the forest floor, getting a mouthful of dirt in the process. 
But this time, the claws did not penetrate the troll’s flesh. 
“ARGH … THAT FUCKING HURT,” roared the troll, 
grabbing at his ribs. It was likely at least a couple of them 
were broken from the mighty blow. Rising once more to 
his feet, Hammer swung furiously at the piasma. Swing 
after swing the troll struck the silver bear, drawing greater 
amounts of blood on the blade of the axe. Unrelenting, the 
very pissed-off troll swung his axe at the bear again and 
again until the bear fell before the Hammer’s feet, dead. 
“There’s your fucking pelt,” growled the Hammer, 
throwing down the talismonger’s axe in rage. Looking 
at the female elf standing next to Mr. Johnson, Hammer 
grimaced, “First Cheyenne and that wonderful job that 
got both of our asses kicked, and now this! You certainly 
have a way of picking the crappy jobs for us! Never again 
will I go on one of these excursions where I get mauled! 
Contrary to popular belief, trolls are not meant to pick 
fights with Awakened bears!” The blood-stained troll 
started to move past the onlookers, heading toward his 
tent where he could patch up his shoulder and attend to 
his ribs. Glaring down at his chummer, Hammer looked 
down at his torn up shoulder and then back up to Silver. 
“And by the way, elf, you owe me a new set of armor.”
 
STREET GRIMOIRE
THE LIFE OF A
TALISMONGER
222    THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p225 =====
POSTED BY: LYRAN
It is no exaggeration to say that talismongers are a 
magic user’s best friend. Talismongers provide access 
to reagents; reagents that runners would have to take 
time away from their runs to hunt down and collect 
themselves if talismongers were not available. Many 
urban shadowrunners would lack the skills, experience, 
and the proper gear to adequately undertake these 
excursions into remote and uninhabited parts of the 
world where some of the best reagents exist. In many 
hostile environments, if you don’t know precisely what 
you’re doing, your inexperience will get you killed. 
Once the reagents have been gathered, suitable 
telesma have been acquired. With their broad 
knowledge of the arcane, talismongers undertake 
the complicated enchanting process to combine all 
these elements and turn them into powerful foci and 
alchemical preparations of all varieties. These can be 
invaluable to your typical shadowrunner at the street 
level, particularly when a runner team is going up against 
a potent magic-based threat such as a corporate wage 
mage or a toxic shaman who may have their own foci 
and other magical gear. In short, a quality talismonger 
can turn any magic-using slot with a small amount of 
talent into an elite, magic-using shadowrunner over 
time. This is an asset that no magician or adept should 
ever be without. Talismongers’ services can, and very 
often do, keep a magic user alive, even when the rest 
of the world may want him dead. 
>	
Talismongers: the magic fixers of the world. Not only do 
they enchant foci, but they run their own networks for 
obtaining hard-to-get reagents, often times bartering and 
leveraging favors for the items they need among each 
other. Many times, these established networks will save 
talismongers time and effort. Why go out and harvest the 
reagents yourself, when another talismonger you know 
in the network has extra reagents they can sell you, or 
trade you for something you have that they need? Most 
talismongers are also best friends with smugglers and 
poachers, often to be able to bypass customs with some 
of their less-than-legal acquisitions. And many times, 
talismongers will act as Johnsons, hiring runners to help 
them obtain the items that they can’t obtain on their own. 
And also, they need runners to keep them safe from other 
talismongers out in the wild that might see them as easy 
prey for robbery.   
>	
Stone
>	
So, how does that make talismongers any different from 
talisleggers?
>	
Lone Rider
>	
Legitimate talismongers, although we will bend the rules 
on occasion to acquire some illegal stuff for their clients, 
will, as a general rule, follow the vast majority of legal 
restrictions for the materials they collect imposed on 
them by the various governments. This means carrying 
legal-ish permits and licenses for gathering reagents. 
Talismongers also (more or less) adhere typically to 
the talismongering guidelines as laid out by the United 
Talismongers Association. So if the UTA says, “Hey, this 
is dangerous and you should not do it,” a talismonger 
frequently follows that practice. Or if the message is “Hey, 
this animal is near extinction, don’t hunt it,” a reputable 
talismonger heeds that advisory, or at the very least acts 
responsibly by not hunting and killing pregnant female 
specimens of the paranormal critter. A talislegger basically 
says “fuck you” to the authorities and will do anything and 
everything they want for a profit. Also, talismongers tend 
to be more independent, or if they work for someone, 
they work for a legitimate organization such as an UTA-
affiliated magic group. Talisleggers, on the other hand, 
tend to work for organized crime. 
>	
Lyran
>	
Like you and the Koshari?
>	
Ma’fan
>	
That’s different. They’re a client, not my employer. I have 
also been contracted to do jobs for the Yakuza and the 
Triads. I am independent, and I follow my own path.  
>	
Lyran
>	
You can add the “not using dragon reagents” to the list of 
things that legitimate talismongers will not do any more, 
and for good reason. Seeing as though a vast majority 
<< THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER    223
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p226 =====
of talismongers that participated in that practice are no 
longer in business today. 
>	
Jimmy No
>	
Or alive.     
>	
Slamm-0!
Talismongers, because of the nature of their work, 
will work out of a physical shop. A talismonger needs 
tools, some place to store their reagents, and a proper 
work area to enchant (also commonly referred to as their 
magic lodge). This would typically be a storefront known 
as a lore shop, which most reputable talismongers prefer 
as it makes it easy for their clients to find them. Alter-
nately this could be the back of a van or other type of 
vehicle, as some talismongers prefer to remain mobile 
and harder to find, while also keeping the location of 
their permanent magic lodge secret. It is a lot harder to 
steal from a mobile talismonger when you’re not sure 
where they’re ever going to be. You should not judge a 
talismonger based on how they conduct their business, 
however. Instead, you should judge talismongers based 
on the quality of their work as well as their street cred. 
Some talismongers do not engage in fine craftsmanship; 
choosing instead to mass produce foci, and turning any-
thing and everything into a focus, from crappy cigarette 
lighters to ugly, cheap-ass rings that cost no more than 
twenty nuyen, with no sense of quality control or aes-
thetics. From my perspective, those crappy talismongers 
are no different than these megacorporate subsidiaries 
that approach talismongering and enchanting as a “one-
size-fits-all” operation and lack any individuality, subtly, 
or soul in their work. Honestly, I fail to see how they can 
do their jobs without infusing even a small amount of 
passion and creativity into their work. Others, such as 
myself, are true artisans, and will spend a lot of time and 
effort getting the aesthetics perfect on a particular fo-
cus. We’re quite particular in what we will enchant and 
how we will enchant it. Talismongers like myself know 
no limits when it comes to our art. Craftsmanship is 
something we take great pride in, and we go to great 
lengths to satisfy the customer, no matter how far we 
must travel or what remote parts of the world we must 
visit to gather various unique reagents for the purpose 
of creating just the right custom focus for our customers. 
Even if it means tossing out our first or second attempts 
at enchanting a focus, we’ll do it, if only to make sure our 
art form is perfect and our reputations as true artisans 
are preserved. 
So what does it take to be a talismonger? It really 
depends on who you ask. I would say the first and fore-
most quality of being a good talismonger is possessing 
a fundamental knowledge of alchemy, herbalism, metal-
lurgy, geology, geography, and of course thaumaturgy. 
You have to be able to identify which herbs, plants, met-
als, gems, and paranormal critters are good for enchant-
ing and which ones possess the highest-grade qualities 
THE ROLE OF THE ARTISAN 
SKILL AND ENCHANTING
Outside factors, including background counts, emotions, 
and environmental destruction are well known to influence 
the conditions of reagents. And so, too, when a talismonger 
is crafting a focus, emotions that a talismonger invest in the 
enchanting process can either make things easier to create a 
focus—or more difficult. Crafting a focus as a work of art, and 
infusing it with creativity and passion, is one way talismongers 
can influence the enchanting process and make it easier. Prior 
to making the Enchanting Test, a talismonger may elect to make 
an Artisan + Intuition [Mental] (5, 1 Day) Extended Test. Net 
hits represent the creativity and the passion the talismonger 
is infusing into his work. If a mystic adept has an adept power 
that can influence their creativity, such as Pied Piper, they 
may choose to use that power and make that test instead. 
The character may only make this test if the focus they are 
constructing is being individually made and is not being mass 
produced. Taking one’s time to craft a focus instead of merely 
assembling one requires an investment of time. The character 
decides how much time they have put into crafting the focus, 
with a minimum time being 1 day. Some talismongers will take 
several days working on one focus, much like a sculptor or 
painter does on their art forms, while others take weeks and 
some take months to add artistic flourishes to their work, from 
engravings and inlaid jewels to elegant drawings. Some very 
rare talismongers sometimes takes a year or longer crafting 
the telesma before making the final Enchantment Test. The net 
hits from the Artisan Test are then used as bonus dice for the 
Enchanting Test, in addition to any enchanting focus they may 
be using.  The maximum amount of bonus dice that can come 
from this process equals the ranks in the skill used as part of 
the Extended Test.
Alternatively, negative emotions can have a detrimental 
impact on the design of a focus. If the character is mentally 
distracted or is emotionally distraught in some way while they 
are making an enchantment, the gamemaster make call for 
a Composure Test (p. 152, SR5) with a threshold of 2, higher 
if the emotions involved are especially intense. A successful 
test allows the character to keep their emotions in check while 
they are designing a focus. A failure imposes a –2 dice pool 
modifier to the final Enchanting Test, and a glitch means a –4 
dice pool modifier. A critical glitch causes the character to 
make a critical mistake, which ruins the entire enchantment 
and wastes the reagents.  
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
224    THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p227 =====
for enchanting purposes. You also need to know how 
to determine whether a specimen is of good quality or 
whether it has become tainted by environmental factors 
and is unusable. A good talismonger is always looking 
for ways to perfect their techniques and will frequent-
ly barter and haggle with other talismongers for tips on 
how to refine their enchanting process. In remote areas, 
such as in South America and Africa, there is a lot more 
fluidity with governmental forces. One day, you may be 
working with one government, and in the next, you have 
a different government with new rules breathing down 
your neck. You need to be adaptable to change. This 
also means there could be new government officials to 
bribe. So keeping up with current events in geo-political 
hot spots is also crucial for the success and the long-
term survival of a talismonger.
>	
Making sure you have goods you set aside to use in bribes—
it’s just as important as having ammunition for your guns. 
In remote areas, soldiers are not going to be interested in 
your cred sticks and electronic accounts. Those things are 
useless in places where wireless connectivity is limited. 
Instead, they’ll be interested in gemstones, silver, gold, or 
other valuable commodities. In many third-world spots, 
be prepared to lose approximately fifteen percent of the 
reagents that you harvest to these opportunistic sons of 
bitches in the form of bribes.
>	
Traveler Jones
>	
Yes, this is why I will still harvest crappy reagents when 
I come across them. The things that I can’t use but still 
look like they are worth a lot of nuyen, I will pass off to the 
uninitiated. What’s not valuable to me might be valuable 
to them. And the best thing about it is they probably will 
never know the difference. 
>	
Lyran  
The best places to visit for harvesting reagents tend 
to be remote locations that are difficult to access and 
less likely to have been impacted negatively by metahu-
man contact. Amazonia is perhaps one of the best loca-
tions for finding pristine specimens of fauna and para-
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER    225
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p228 =====
normal critters for your enchanting needs, particularly in 
the heart of the Amazon Rainforest. However, with Az-
tlan’s encroachment into the northern parts of the rain-
forest, you need to stay away from the northern areas 
where Aztlan has moved in since the Azt-Am War, as the 
Azzies are not treating the area gently. Also remember 
that there are many dangers to be found in the Awak-
ened rainforest, including carnivorous trees (which can 
provide powerful reagents if they don’t kill you first), the 
ghost cartels, deadly insects, and venomous paranor-
mal critters, some of which have yet to be classified by 
today’s science. Africa continues to be another popular 
spot for reagent gathering. But again, rapid urbanization 
of wilderness areas, irresponsible poaching, and strip 
mining operations continue to whittle away at sourc-
es of radical-quality reagents. Asia also suffers similar 
problems, particularly with the rapid loss or wilderness. 
One part of the world that does not suffer as much 
metahuman intrusion is Australia. With all the wild mag-
ic, mana storms, and highly venomous Awakened para-
normal critters, Australia’s outback is one of the best 
places in the world to harvest untainted reagents. In 
North America, there are still a few locations that are ide-
al for harvesting reagents. Mount Shasta, despite being 
devastated by the events surrounding the climax of the 
Great Dragon Civil War, still has locations that are ideal 
for talismongering. The Mohave Desert is also known for 
its exemplary reagents. The main drawback, besides the 
unbearable temperatures during the summer months, is 
you might just have to endear hostile spirits, resulting in 
many talismongering expeditions disappearing into the 
desert and never being seen again. And the NAN na-
tions, particularly the Sioux Nation and the Pueblo Cor-
porate Council, have territory that has been protected 
from metahuman abuse, making them ripe for reagent 
hunting. The downside of these locations should be ob-
vious: these lands are generally restricted, meaning only 
talismongers belonging to the tribes that are native to 
those nations can enter. Even then, there are tight re-
strictions on what they can and cannot harvest. Talis-
mongers from outside find it difficult at best to work in 
these areas without overtly breaking the law. Many tal-
ismongers find that they have no choice but to break the 
law to make a living in these areas, even if they would 
prefer to remain law-abiding. 
>	
Yes, talismongers have it rough. Not only do they have to 
worry about governments and all the dangers associated 
with doing their jobs properly, they also have to worry 
about the criminal syndicates. Some will just try and kill 
you outright for competing for their resources. Those that 
don’t will try to intimidate you into giving up a share of 
your reagents for the privilege of staying in business. And 
many will give in to those shakedown demands, ’cause 
it’s better to be alive than dead. 
>	
Hard Exit
Talismongering has become much more complicat-
ed thanks to the dragons. Talismongers typically have 
locations that they have staked out and have claimed as 
their own territory for prime reagent harvesting. Due to 
prime specimens of reagents being so hard to come by, 
talismongers are very protective of the areas that pro-
duce decent reagents. Independent talismongers regu-
larly hire runners to help defend their turf. Talisleggers 
wil generally have the muscle of the syndicate they are 
working for to keep rival operations out of their way, in 
order to protect syndicate profits. Don’t expect a rival 
talismonger to be willing to negotiate for rights to use 
HIGHLIGHTED FOCUS: COMBAT KNIFE FROM THE UNITED STATES’ 
CONFLICT AGAINST NATIVE AMERICAN NATIONS IN 2016
In the Museum of Sioux History in Cheyenne lies a combat knife 
used during the Native American Nations’ battle for independence 
against the United States Government. According to historians, this 
combat knife is among the first weapon focuses used during that 
conflict, and it is believed to have belonged to War Chief Ossiolachiih 
from the Muscogee tribe. The blade was used for sixteen confirmed 
kills of United States military personnel during that conflict. 
What is interesting about this combat focus, beyond its historical 
significance, is the fact that after nearly sixty years, the enchantment 
on the weapon focus retains a significant amount of its power 
nearly sixty years later. Typically in those early years, enchanting 
was very rudimentary, and enchantments rarely survived past ten 
years. The quality of this enchantment speaks to the talent and skill 
of Ossiolachiih as a master enchanter. The Museum of Sioux History 
also holds three other weapon foci recovered from that conflict: 
a tomahawk and two combat axes, all of which have had their 
enchantments break over time. Currently there is a great demand 
from collectors looking to acquire artifacts from that era. At various 
battle sites within the Native American Nations, valuable relics may 
remain, waiting to be unearthed by the right hunter. However, many 
battle sites from that conflict are off limits to outsiders, and anyone 
who violates these tribal laws could end up serving lengthy prison 
time. Some see the risk worth it for hunting these historical relics, and 
for the nuyen they can net. Examination of War Chief Ossiolachiih’s 
combat knife suggests that it was likely a very powerful focus in its 
day, but has lost perhaps half of its potency.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
226    THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p229 =====
the land. Your intrusion into their territory threatens their 
livelihood, and they are more than likely willing to take 
you out than share their turf. 
When the dragons extracted their vengeance on the 
talismonger population for using dragon reagents, they 
shook up the balance of power within the talismonger 
community. Many of these optimal locations that were 
previously claimed by veteran talismongers have since 
gone abandoned. Ever since the conclusion of the Great 
Dragon Civil War, there have been power grabs by tal-
ismongers and talisleggers over this newly unclaimed 
territory all around the world, while criminal syndicates 
have been trying to shore up the operations they have 
already established and take over areas where rival op-
erations were devastated by the dragons’ intervention. 
So far, the fighting over land use has been bloody. The 
shifting territories have yet to be resolved, and each day 
new talismongers are looking to use the chaos to mus-
cle in on the more lucrative territories. If you intend to 
make talismongering your life, you better watch your 
back. There’s going to people gunning for it, trying to 
get their hands on the same reagents that you’ll be look-
ing for. Life for a talismonger will remain tough for the 
foreseeable future, until a new pecking order amongst 
the talismonger community is all sorted out.
TALISMONGERS 
AND REAGENTS
The enchanting process is a delicate one. Any number 
of variables can enter the process at any step, causing 
unintended flaws in the product and perhaps ruining 
cause the focus. It is because of this the United Talis-
mongers Association recommends that when a talis-
monger is collecting materials, they should only use 
properly prepared tools in gathering reagents. The UTA 
has approved the sell of a cleanser that, using an indus-
try-recognized process, can eliminate a vast amount 
of impurities from a talismonger’s tools (ranging from 
chisels, pickaxes, scalpels, and knives to melee weap-
ons, which are handy if you’re collecting pelts of para-
normal critters), and prevent cross-contamination 
between reagents. The last thing you would want, for 
example, is for flecks of dried blood from the pelt of 
a phoenix from your last kill to end up on the pelt of a 
horned bear that you just collected. Or a trace amount 
of diamond dust ending up in an enchanting that does 
not need it. It may seem like minimal contamination, 
but it would not be a minor detail later if the focus’ en-
chantment breaks due to the adulteration of the two 
materials. This is perhaps the easiest part of a talismon-
gers’ jobs—keeping their tools immaculately clean and 
ready for the next batch of reagents. Unfortunately, I 
know of too many talismongers who are lazy or who 
overlook this step, risking contamination for the sake 
of expediency. They claim it makes no discernible dif-
ference in their work, but I can tell you there is a sig-
nificant difference in the way the focus is constructed 
and how well crafted (or shoddy) that enchantment is. 
There have been stories of enchantments randomly 
shattering on a runner because of how it was made. 
So if you are looking to be a talismonger and excel in 
this field, learn to do the right thing at the start of your 
career, practice proper habits and keep your tools and 
workspace clean. It may save you a lot of wasted re-
agents later on. And if you are a runner looking for a 
talismonger, always pay attention to the street rep of a 
talismonger. Just like there are shady fences out there 
who will sell you modeling clay for explosives, so too 
are there shady talismongers out there that will cut cor-
ners to increase their profit margins.  
Keep in mind talismongering is never as easy or as 
glamorous as the trid movies make it out to be, especial-
ly when it comes to gathering reagents. You don’t just 
go out to a remote area and spend time looking around 
on the astral. You have to actively search for them. This 
means hiking, climbing, sifting and panning rivers, track-
ing, and digging. This is often tedious and grueling work. 
Depending on the kind of reagents you are looking for, 
you could easily spend weeks, if not months, outside 
of modern civilization. Trust me, the lifestyle is not for 
everyone. Living inside tents, wearing bulky or bur-
densome environmental suits, being filthy without the 
possibility of hot showers for weeks on end, living off 
of pre-packaged, dehydrated food, encountering exotic 
diseases that make your life a living hell, and living in 
extreme temperatures without hardly any modern con-
veniences are all things that talismongers have come to 
expect in their line of work. This on top of the risk of al-
ways stumbling into dangers that are not natural, but in-
stead, are metahuman-caused. Minefields are the most 
common threat in my line of work, but so are chemical 
spills that someone “forgot” to report, as well as radio-
active hot spots and toxic waste spills that have been 
covered up.  
If the living conditions and dangers were not enough 
to discourage you from the lifestyle, you might want to 
consider the frustration that comes from the realization 
that not all specimens of reagents share a uniform quali-
ty. You could be stuck in the middle of nowhere, chasing 
a vein of gold to mine, only to find that the vein of gold 
you finally stumble upon has been contaminated by a 
chemical spill from MCT, and any gold you unearth will 
be unusable to you, as the gold no longer contains any 
trace of magic potential. Or you could wind up spending 
all your time looking for a paranormal critter specimen 
when it turns out that it has become mutated or turned 
toxic by its environment. There is nothing more frustrat-
ing than having to start your search all over again when 
you invested dozens of hours or more on your current 
search, only to find out that the pot of gold you have 
been chasing is nothing more than a cauldron of tox-
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER    227
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p230 =====
ic sludge. But that is a reality of today’s talismongers: 
you encounter failure and more failure before you finally 
strike success.  
Experienced talismongers have come to accept 
there are variations in the quality of reagents. Besides 
those that have been contaminated to the point of being 
worthless, there are other reagents that have been se-
verely damaged but can still be used with a lot of effort. 
Other specimens are only moderately damaged and can 
be used with less effort; usually these are considered to 
be “inferior” specimens. And there are still others that 
are only considered “subpar,” meaning they only have 
moderate imperfections due to various health and en-
vironmental factors. If you are lucky, you will stumble 
across what are called baseline specimens. These are 
the specimens which are meant to be the normal ex-
pressions of the species. In my opinion, the lowest 
grade of reagents you should ever consider using for 
enchanting are your baseline specimens. Anything else 
and you risk ruining the focus by interjecting flaws into 
the enchantment process. The flaws from these poor 
specimens can still carry over to the finished product 
even after the reagents have been turned into refined 
or radical reagents. Also, the more damaged the spec-
imen of reagent is from various environmental factors, 
the less you can harvest to use for your enchantments. 
A vein of silver containing ten drams of material might 
only be able to produce six drams if it is considered to 
be of inferior quality. If the severity of the contamination 
exceeds the amount of drams a source of reagents can 
produce, than nothing can be harvested and you have 
wasted your time. So it is more worth your time seeking 
out higher quality reagents and to get more for your ef-
fort than settling for subpar materials.
REAGENT QUALITY AND AMOUNT THAT MAY BE HARVESTED
QUALITY
AMOUNT HARVESTED
Unusable
No reagent can be harvested from source
Tainted
–6 drams 
Inferior
–4 drams
Subpar
–2 drams
Baseline
No modifier, all drams that the source of material is capable of producing can be harvested
Superior
No modifier, all drams that the source of material is capable of producing can be harvested
Prime
No modifier, all drams that the source of material is capable of producing can be harvested
Superior and Prime specimens take less time to refine into refined and radical reagents. Reduce the time it takes to 
convert Superior reagents into refined and radical reagents by 25 percent (round up). Reduce the time it takes to convert 
Prime specimens into refined and radical reagents by 50 percent (round up). 
An Assensing + Intuition [8, 10 minutes] Extended Test before the talismonger collects the reagents will inform him of 
the quality of specimen. 
HIGHLIGHT FOCUS: GUNGNIR
Anyone who is a history buff and is familiar with the 
events of the Second Matrix Crash may have heard of 
Gungnir. Gungnir was the weapon focus belonging to the 
Winternight cult leader known as Wednesday. Wednesday 
used a number of foci during his day, but none were as well 
known or as visible to his movement as Gungnir, a weapon 
focus, enchanted into the form of a spear. No one truly knew 
how powerful this weapon focus was, as Wednesday kept it 
masked most of the time. Reports and rumors suggested it 
was quite powerful, possibly a Force 12 weapon focus. When 
Europol captured Wednesday, they learned that it was a Force 
8 weapon focus, decorated with Norse runes and inscribed 
in gold lettering. Europol also confirmed that it was a toxic 
weapon focus. For nearly a decade, it was left in an evidence 
locker room. In 2073, when someone went to destroy the 
weapon focus, Europol learned that the spear had vanished. 
They still have no idea when it disappeared. They believe that 
remaining Winternight cells or other, newer neo-Winternight 
groups, may have been responsible for its theft. Its location is 
still a mystery. There is a 25,000 nuyen bounty on its recovery, 
as well as the capture of anyone behind the theft. So far, there 
are still no good leads as to where this toxic weapon focus 
has gone. 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
228    THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p231 =====
If you are prepared to spend a lot more time hunting 
reagents, it is possible to gather reagents from superior 
and prime specimens of plant, mineral, or animal life. 
These specimens are extraordinarily hard to come by 
in this age of ground, water, and air contamination, so 
if you have your heart set on acquiring these types of 
reagents, be prepared to spend even longer periods of 
time hunting for them. However, the qualities of these 
superior and prime specimens allow for a higher quality 
of focus to be made, and will allow the enchantment 
on the focus to last much longer. This is why I general-
ly stick to using superior and prime specimens for my 
reagents, and choosing to only use baseline-grade re-
agents when I absolutely have to. The location where 
you harvest is key to your success at locating superi-
or and prime specimens. If you are harvesting in plac-
es like Amazonia, you have a much greater chance of 
locating superior and prime specimens that have not 
been tainted by pollution or toxins. However, if you try 
talismongering in places like Aztlan, which still has a 
problem of excessive mana warps, or Tsimshian, which 
has become the poster child for toxic waste dumps the 
world over, all you’re going to find are severely tainted 
and unusable reagents. This is why finding a good place 
to harvest and protecting it from other talismongers 
and talisleggers is key to your success. 
As a talismonger, it is also important to keep in mind 
that the methods you use to gather reagents can impact 
the quality of the specimen of reagent, particularly with 
paranormal critters. The way you choose to collect ani-
mal pelts may either be neutral and does minimal dam-
age to the pelt, or can be recklessly applied and cause 
severe harm to the pelt of the creature that it actually 
degrades its quality. Talismongers early on realized that 
shooting an animal up with bullets is a bad thing, as 
there’s a chance of contaminating the pelt with metallic 
and gunpowder residue that can fuck with the enchant-
ment process. Not to mention that gunshot wounds in-
flict traumatic damage on the body of a paranormal crit-
ter, causing you to lose potential drams of reagents. To 
minimize damage to a specimen, the UTA recommends 
using a basic bow and arrow if you are hunting an an-
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER    229
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p232 =====
imal at a distance. Both the bow and the arrow should 
be properly treated and prepared using the approved 
UTA cleanser to avoid contamination of the specimen 
from foreign particulates. Using tranquilizers and other 
drugs on a specimen also has a negative reaction on the 
specimen and degrades its quality. Combat spells cast 
on paranormal critters have been known to adversely 
affect reagents that are harvested from their bodies. If 
you cannot use a bow and arrow, the next best thing to 
collecting material is engaging the paranormal critter in 
melee combat with a treated melee weapon. Any other 
method risks damaging the pelt, and risk damaging the 
reagents you are looking to preserve.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
TOOL CLEANSERS
ITEM
AVAILABILITY
COST
Tool cleanser (15 uses)
10
50¥
For each tool a talismonger uses, they make an Artificing 
+ Magic [4, 10 minutes] Extended Test to properly clean each 
tool and get it ready for harvesting reagents. If improperly 
cleaned tools are used to harvest reagents, roll 1D6; on a 1, 
the reagents have their quality downgraded by one line (e.g., 
going from baseline to subpar, or subpar to inferior). Tools 
that use lasers or produce flame to cut or melt reagents, or 
otherwise do not allow for cross contamination of reagents, 
do not need to go through this process.
230    THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER >>
IMPORTANCE OF INDIVIDUALIZING A FOCUS FOR A SPECIFIC USER
Due to how reagents work, talismongers must take the person 
that they are building the focus for into consideration. This also 
includes their mentor spirit. During the enchantment process, if a 
talismonger uses at least one reagent that has a direct connection 
with the mentor spirit (or totem), such as the use of eagle feathers 
as reagents for a focus for a follower of the Eagle totem, the 
person buying that focus will find it easier to bond to that focus. In 
game terms, the character receives a –1 reduction to the Karma 
cost that the character has to pay to bond to that focus. If all 
reagents used for a focus are related to the individual’s mentor 
spirit, that reduction increases to a –2 to the bonding Karma cost. 
For example, if a talismonger constructs a focus for a follower of 
the sea totem and uses nothing but coral reef, naturally grown 
pearls, and conch shells as reagents, that bonus becomes a –2. 
This bonus is only available to individuals that have mentor spirits. 
There is a price, however, for this Karma reduction. Using 
reagents that hold a connection to a mentor spirit gives the 
mentor spirit power over that focus. This typically is not a big 
deal, but should the follower upset the mentor spirit, in addition to 
taking away certain bonuses the follower receives for upsetting 
the mentor spirit, the mentor spirit could also turn off any focus 
where this connection was established and where the follower 
took advantage of this Karma reduction. If a follower chooses 
not to take the Karma cost reduction for bonding to the focus 
and chooses to pay full value, however, this connection is not 
established with the mentor spirit, which means the mentor spirit 
has no control over the focus. 
Also, should the follower ever decide to change their beliefs 
and follow a different totem or mentor spirit, the connection with 
that mentor spirit is severed, and the focus becomes inert until the 
character spends the full Karma cost to re-bond to the focus—
provided the character wants to re-bond to the focus that was 
basically dedicated to the purpose of their former totem. Bonding 
to an old focus that was dedicated to an old mentor spirit could 
be perceived by the current mentor spirit as a slight against them 
and could risk the anger of the new mentor spirit.
UPGRADING AN EXISTING FOCUS
There are questions that persist as to whether a runner who 
wishes to use a higher rated focus than the one they currently 
using must purchase a brand new focus or if they can simply 
upgrade it. The truth is, foci can be upgraded under the right 
circumstances. The main restriction on upgrading any focus 
is that it must be done by the same talismonger who forged the 
focus in the first place. A focus cannot have the astral signatures 
of two talismongers interwoven into its tapestry. Attempting 
to do so automatically shatters the enchantment. This means 
that foci taken from other magicians and you do not know who 
enchanted them cannot be upgraded. Also, the focus must simply 
be upgraded to the same, stronger version of itself. It may not be 
repurposed as another type of focus. A power focus may not be 
upgraded to become a sustaining focus. 
The talismonger will need to add regents to the enchantment 
equal to difference in karma costs for bonding the old focus 
and bonding the upgraded version. For example, if a character 
wishes to upgrade a Force 3 Spell focus to a Force 5 Spell focus, 
the talismonger will need to use 4 reagents to upgrade the focus 
(10 being the new cost for bonding the focus, 6 being the cost 
of bonding to the Force 3 focus). The talismonger will need to 
make another Enchanting Test to re-forge the focus. They may, if 
they so choose, make another Artisan + Intuition test to rework 
the aesthetics of the focus to incorporate the changes into its 
design. Because the character was only bonded to the previous 
version, they will only need to pay 4 Karma to fully bond with the 
upgraded focus.
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p233 =====
THE BUSINESS SIDE  
OF TALISMONGERING
There is no doubt about it: there are a lot of downsides 
to the life of a talismonger. However, there are a lot of 
upsides as well, including the potential for making a lot 
of nuyen. Talismongers are able to sell raw, refined and 
radical reagents to consumers, as well as focus formu-
lae, spell formulae, and alchemical preparations. Al-
though the market sets the prices for what talismongers 
can charge, many of the prices already have a descent 
amount of profit already worked into the pricing. It is 
also important to note that not all talismongers will offer 
formulae or foci at the market value, some will charge as 
much as 20 percent more for their goods, while others 
will offer discounts of up to 10 percent on their wares 
for their “regular customers.” It is important for runners 
to establish solid bonds with their talismonger contacts 
in order to take advantage of these potential discounts, 
and to avoid being taken advantage of by high prices.  
When costs for a particular, special ordered focus 
exceed the standard market value that is when nego-
tiations come into play. For a well crafted focus that re-
quired a lot of artistic design, a talismonger will likely ask 
for at least a 1,000 nuyen above the fair market value for 
the focus. This can increase greatly, depending on the 
talent and reputation of the talismonger, and also what 
went into creating the customized focus for the client. 
In my business, I can regularly ask for ten thousand nuy-
en above the normal cost of a focus. My reputation for 
quality and my craftsmanship easily justify such an ask-
ing price. Experienced talismongers with similar reputa-
tions can charge similar amounts, and can expect to get 
it. And of course, talismongering is an industry where 
tipping your talismonger is not only recommended but 
expected. After all, talismongers are busy metahumans, 
and those who tip well tend to end up at the top of 
their “to do” lists, while those that don’t find themselves 
waiting long periods of time to have their requests pro-
cessed. So do yourself a favor, chummers, and tip your 
talismongers well.
HIGHLIGHTED FOCUS:  
JOHNNY “SHOCKY” BYRNES’  
ARES PREDATOR
What has to be the most gaudy and tasteless focus I have 
ever seen is a gold-plated Ares Predator II belonging to famed 
mobster Johnny “Shocky” Byrnes from the 2040’s. “Shocky” 
Byrnes was a made-man with the Bigio family starting in the 
early 2040’s. Back then, the mafia frowned heavily on magic 
users, so Byrne’s hid his magic talent for most of the time 
he was a made-man. He relied heavily on his Ares Predator 
(his “signature” piece) to enforce the will of the Bigio family. 
Little did the family know he had secretly had his gold-plated 
Ares Predator turned into a focus; a spell sustaining focus, 
by adding silver-laced initials to the grip of his pistol. It is 
widely believed Byrnes used this focus to sustain either an 
Armor spell or a Detect Enemies spell. This spell apparently 
did Byrnes no good, as he would die in 2053 in a car bomb, 
believed to have been the work of the Yakuza. Although 
Byrnes did not survive the explosion, his focus somehow did. 
Byres’ Ares Predator now hangs in the Mob History Museum 
in Las Vegas. 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE LIFE OF A TALISMONGER    231
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
