
===== PDF p200 =====
a radius of (Force) kilometers, and the shaking persists 
intermittently for (Force) minutes. Areas especially vul-
nerable to earthquakes are usually not areas that receive 
them frequently, as people in vulnerable areas tend to 
build dwellings with earthquakes in mind. The spirit 
makes a Magic + Willpower Test and the number of hits 
represents the magnitude of the quake, as noted on the 
Quake Table.
REALISTIC FORM
Type: P	 	
Action: Auto
Range: Self	
Duration: Special
A spirit with Realistic Form can be mistaken for a 
normal physical creature or object when it materializ-
es, or it appears unremarkable when joined to a ves-
sel. A spirit that appears as a metahuman would have 
a heartbeat and a regular breathing rate. A spirit that 
appeared as an object mimics the object’s normal func-
tionality; for example, a toaster could be plugged into 
the wall to toast bread (though it would have no Matrix 
link, making it an antique toaster). The spirit is in no way 
disguised from the astral plane, but to physical obser-
vation appears to any senses to be a natural part of the 
physical world.
Note that spirits with the Materialization power 
normally only have one materialized form. Materi-
alizing spirits with this power can choose to appear 
using Realistic Form or their normal materialized form. 
A fire elemental can still appear as a column of angry 
flames but might also be able to appear as a beautiful 
woman.
REINFORCEMENT
Type: P	 	
Action: Complex
Range: Touch	
Duration: Special
This power strengthens the resistance of natural and 
constructed materials. To fortify materials, the spirit must 
take a Force x 2 [Force] (square meters, 1 hour) Extended 
Text. If successful, the spirit’s Force is added to the Struc-
ture and Armor Ratings. Multiple applications of Rein-
forcement are not cumulative, and only the highest effect 
counts. Once the reinforcement is in place, it is permanent.
SENSE LINK
Type: M	 	
Action: Simple
Range: Special	
Duration: Sustained
A critter with the Sense Link power can share sen-
sory data with its summoner (and vice versa). The sum-
moner experiences the critter’s emotions (at a low lev-
el) and can send simple commands, which the critter 
may not understand or follow, especially if the com-
mand places them in danger. An Intuition + Charisma 
Test, opposed by the critter’s Willpower + Intuition, 
may be used to persuade the critter to obey. In addi-
tion, the summoner can experience one of the critter’s 
senses with a Simple Action; with each Simple Action 
expended, the summoner can choose which sense 
to experience. Augmented senses (whether they are 
magically augmented or otherwise) in the summoner 
do not work through the critter. The range of this pow-
er is equal to (Magic x 50 meters). If the critter is hurt 
while the link is intact, the summoner must resist Stun 
damage equal to the damage inflicted on the critter 
with a Willpower + Magic Test.
SHADOW CLOAK
Type: P	 	
Action: Free
Range: Self	
Duration: Sustained
This power allows a creature to envelop itself in ut-
ter darkness, making it appear to be a shadow. Shadow 
Cloak is useless in full daylight and unnecessary in com-
plete darkness; other lighting conditions make it difficult 
to see the creature using this power. Apply a –2 dice 
pool modifier to Perception Tests for detecting the crea-
ture in Partial Light, –4 dice pool modifier in Dim Light, 
and a +1 dice pool modifier in Glare conditions.
QUAKE TABLE
While the effects of an individual quake are highly 
dependent upon the conditions of surrounding soil, the quality 
of engineering, and the preparedness of the surrounding 
citizenry, the following guidelines can be used (generally, a 
quake includes the effects on the line for its number of hits as 
well as all the other effects for a smaller number of hits):
HITS
EFFECTS
1
Motion detectors useless for the duration; sleeping 
people awaken. 
2
Top-heavy objects fall; unlatched doors and 
windows swing open or shut. 
3
Furniture shifts; objects fall off shelves in bulk; 
drivers of land vehicles must make Vehicle Tests. 
4
Ordinary buildings damaged; doors jam; minefields 
detonate. 
5
Furniture overturns; windows break; entire area 
considered difficult ground. 
6
Freestanding fences, walls, and trees sag or fall 
over; gas lines are unsafe. 
7
Roadways become impassable; some buildings 
collapse. 
8
Many buildings collapse, crevasses appear in 
pavement and open ground. 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
198    THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p201 =====
SILENCE
Type: P	 	
Action: Complex
Range: Special	
Duration: Sustained
A creature with this power can surround itself in a 
sphere of silence with a radius equal to the creature’s 
Magic in meters. Sounds from within the area are muf-
fled, and sounds entering the area are harder to hear by 
the creature or anyone else. Sound-based Perception 
Tests and the Damage Value of sound-based attacks are 
reduced by the spirit’s Magic.
SONIC PROJECTION
Type: P	 	
Action: Complex
Range: Special	
Duration: Sustained
This power affects everyone within earshot—except 
for spirits of the same type—and creates a deafening 
and distracting buzz. The spirit makes an Opposed Test 
using its Force x 2 against each target’s Willpower. Sound 
dampers and spells like Hush/Silence provide addition-
al dice to the defender equal to their Rating or the hits 
the caster scored. Each of the spirit’s net hits provides a 
negative dice pool modifier on all tests for as long as the 
buzzing is sustained. 
STORM
Type: P	 	
Action: Complex
Range: Special	
Duration: Special
A spirit with this power can send a massive, destruc-
tive elemental storm against a targeted area. Icy rain, 
bolts of lightning, gale-force winds, and more strike the 
area. The affected area’s radius equals the spirit’s Magic 
x 100 meters. The spirit makes a single Unarmed Com-
bat + Magic [Force] Test, and all characters, creatures, 
and objects in the area are considered subject to Sup-
pressive Fire (p. 179, SR5). The storm’s base Damage 
Value is (Force)P.
NEW QUALITIES
The following qualities can be applied to spirits or con-
jurers. If the quality does not have a Karma cost or bo-
nus, it can only be applied to spirits.
RESTLESS
Some spirits are just meant to be free, and a restless 
spirit tries to break its chains at any opportunity. When 
a conjurer performs a binding ceremony on a spirit with 
the Restless quality, the spirit gains a number of free 
hits equal to its Force divided by 3 (rounded up), in ad-
dition to the hits it rolls for the test. 
When making a test to see if an ally breaks free 
(see Losing an Ally, p. 202), a Restless ally spirit gains a 
number of additional dice equal to 6 minus its current 
Loyalty rating.
SERVILE
Though most spirits find serving metahumanity a form of 
imprisonment, a servile spirit wants nothing more than to 
answer a summoner’s call with gusto. When summoning 
a spirit with the Servile quality, a conjurer receives one 
free hit on his Summoning Test and on any Binding Test 
performed on this spirit.
SPIRIT CHAMPION
COST: 14 KARMA
Something you did had a lasting, positive effect on the 
astral plane, and the whole spirit world is talking about 
it. Characters with this quality may spend (Force x 5) 
drams of reagents when performing a Summoning Test 
to receive a +1 dice pool modifier, in addition to any re-
agents spent to set the limit for the test. Also, Binding 
Tests require only (Force x 20) drams of reagents, and 
the summoner receives a +1 dice pool modifier.
SPIRIT PARIAH
BONUS: 14 KARMA
Something you did slotted of the spirit world something 
fierce, so spirits really don’t like you. In order to even get 
their attention, you must make additional offerings to 
get spirits to show up. A character with this quality must 
expend (Force x 5) drams of reagents in order to make a 
Summoning Test; reagents spent to increase the test’s lim-
it do not count toward this amount. If the character can-
not expend enough reagents, the test automatically fails. 
Also, Binding Tests require (Force x 30) drams of reagents, 
and the summoner receives a –1 dice pool modifier.
NEW MENTOR 
SPIRITS
BERSERKER
Those who follow the path of Berserker love fighting 
just for the sake of fighting, be it with words, fists, or 
spells. He is the greatest of all warriors, capable of 
wading into battle without fear, and he will wage his 
war singlehandedly if necessary.
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 dice pool modifier for Composure Tests
Magician: +2 dice for Physical-type Combat spells, 
preparations, and rituals
Adept: 2 free levels of Mystic Armor or Pain Resis-
tance, or 1 free level of each
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH    199
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p202 =====
DISADVANTAGES
Berserker’s followers have very short fuses. Whenever 
someone strongly disagrees with you (gamemaster’s 
discretion), you must pass a Charisma + Willpower (3) 
Test to keep from striking out against the offender. If the 
test fails, the attack can be in any form you choose (fist, 
spell, etc.), but it must have the intent to cause damage.
Similar Archetypes: Warrior, Warmonger
CHAOS
Adherents of Chaos seemingly do things at random 
and love to start arguments or barroom brawls just 
for kicks, often through random trickery. While most 
people have a rather fixed sense of right and wrong, 
a Chaos follower’s moral compass points in a different 
direction from moment to moment.
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 dice pool modifier for Con Tests 
Magician: +2 dice to Illusion spells, preparations, 
and rituals
Adept: 2 free levels of Improved Potential (can be 2 
levels for the same limit, or 1 level apiece to affect 2 
different limits) 
DISADVANTAGES
You are an inveterate gossip trying to stir up trouble, 
especially between friends, and thus cannot keep dam-
aging secrets to yourself. Also, anytime you encounter 
a public situation deemed too quiet or stable (game-
master’s discretion), make a Willpower + Intuition (3) 
Test. Failure means that you are compelled to stir the 
pot in any way you desire, be it attacking, telling lies, or 
throwing a drink on someone nearby.
Similar Archetypes: Trickster, Troublemaker
PEACEMAKER
Deep down, all Peacemaker wants is for everyone to get 
along, even if they are currently mortal enemies. She 
believes every argument can be solved in some way; 
on the other hand, she knows some arguments require 
force or bodily harm in order get one’s point across.
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 dice pool modifier for Negotiation Tests
Magician: +2 dice to Detection spells, preparations, 
and rituals
Adept: 2 free levels of Enhanced Perception
DISADVANTAGES
You see even enemies as potential friends and go 
out of your way to keep from hurting anyone unless 
the situation truly warrants it. At the very beginning of 
combat, you must pass a Charisma + Intuition (3) Test; 
failure means you are unable to take actions that cause 
Physical damage for the duration of combat. At the 
beginning of a new Combat Turn, you may choose to 
retake the test if you failed the first time and you or a 
member of your team suffered damage in the previous 
Combat Turn.
Similar Archetypes: Mediator, Pacifist
ORACLE
Past, present, and future—Oracle knows all and sees 
all. She peels back the veil of mystery and reveals what 
has been, what is, and what will be. Nothing escapes 
her notice, and things that are hidden do not remain 
hidden for long.
ADVANTAGES
All: +2 dice pool modifier for Arcana Tests
Magician: +2 dice for Detection spells, preparations, 
and rituals
Adept: Free Astral Perception
DISADVANTAGES
You hate mysteries with a passion and can disappear 
for days trying to track down the answer. When con-
fronted by a particularly haunting question (gamemas-
ter’s discretion), you must take a Willpower + Intuition 
(3) Test. Failure means you must undertake an Intuition 
+ Logic [Mental] (5, 1 hour) Extended Test to try re-
searching the answer. Completion of the Extended Test 
does not necessarily mean you found the answer, but it 
at least silences the question in your mind for the time 
being.
When a follower of Oracle becomes a Grade 1 initi-
ate (p. 324, SR5), she must choose Divination (p. 147) 
for her first metamagic rather than a Power Point or any 
other benefit.
Similar Archetypes: Teacher, Mystic
ALLY SPIRITS
An ally spirit can be a great boon to an initiated ma-
gician. To conjure an ally spirit, a magician needs to 
either craft or find an appropriate spirit formula. Once 
the magician has the proper formula, she may attempt 
to conjure and bind the spirit.
ALLY SPIRIT FORMULA
An ally’s spirit formula is a physical representation of 
the spirit, similar to an initiate’s thesis (see p. 142). A 
magician can obtain this formula in one of two ways:
•	
The conjurer (or a trusted third party) can create 
the formula from scratch by making an Arcana + 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
200    THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p203 =====
Logic [Mental] (Force x 5, 1 day) Extended Test. 
Be aware that having someone else design your 
spirit formula means the creator might keep a 
copy for themselves.
•	
By undertaking a metaplanar quest (p. 140) to 
the chosen metaplane, an initiate can locate a 
formula that matches her needs.
To perform the summoning ceremony, the conjurer 
needs a physical copy of this formula. For allies requiring 
a vessel, either the original or a copy of the spirit formula 
must be carved into the prepared vessel.
CREATING AN ALLY 
SPIRIT FORMULA
To create a spirit formula and determine the Karma costs 
for conjuring an ally spirit, perform the following steps:
Step 1: Choose Force: The base cost of an ally spirit 
is 8 Karma times desired Force.
Step 2: Choose Form(s): The ally spirit may have 
only one of the following powers: Inhabitation (p. 
195), Materialization (p. 398, SR5), or Possession 
(p. 197). Materialization allies have a base form 
that usually applies to the conjurer’s traditions. 
Allies can have additional forms at the cost of 2 
Karma each; an ally can switch between forms 
using a Complex Action. Inhabitation allies must 
have a prepared vessel for them, but they can only 
have multiple forms if a true form results from the 
merge. Possession allies have no material form of 
their own, but vessels can be prepared for them.
Step 3: Choose Powers: Ally spirits start with Astral 
Form (p. 394, SR5), Banishing Resistance (p. 194), 
Realistic Form (p. 198), Sapience (p. 400, SR5), and 
Sense Link (p. 198). Each ally also receives one ad-
ditional power per point of Force, chosen from any 
powers of spirits appropriate to the conjurer’s tra-
dition. Beyond this, further powers appropriate to 
the conjurer’s tradition may be chosen at the cost 
of 5 Karma per power. If the conjurer chooses the 
Elemental Attack, Energy Aura, or Engulf powers, 
she must specify what form the power takes.
Step 4: Choose Skills: Allies start with the skills of 
Assensing, Astral Combat, Perception, and Un-
armed Combat. Additional skills that the conjurer 
knows or that may be needed for the spirit to use 
one of its powers (such as Exotic Ranged Weapon 
for Elemental Attack or Counterspelling for Mag-
ical Guard) cost 5 Karma each. Allies may never 
possess skills from the Conjuring group, and they 
may only be given the Flight skill (p. 394, SR5) if it 
fits the spirit’s form.
Step 5: Choose Spells: An ally spirit can be taught 
any spells the conjurer knows for 3 Karma each or 
ones the conjurer doesn’t know for 5 Karma each 
(spell formulae are still required).
CONJURING AN ALLY
The ritual for summoning an ally must be performed in a 
magical lodge with a Force at least equal to the ally be-
ing summoned. Follow summoning rules (p. 300, SR5). 
Immediately after summoning, the spirit must be bound 
using standard binding rules (p. 300, SR5). Calculate Drain 
as if summoning and binding a spirit of the ally’s Force.
If the binding succeeds, the magician pays an 
amount of Karma as outlined in the ally’s spirit formula. 
If the binding generates succeeds, the magician pays an 
amount of Karma as outlined in the ally’s spirit formula. 
If the necessary amount of Karma cannot be paid, the 
ritual fails.
If the ally has the Inhabitation power, the conjurer 
must already have a prepared vessel. After the spirit is 
bound it must immediately use its Inhabitation power on 
the vessel. As per the Inhabitation power (p. 195), the 
conjurer may choose to influence the outcome of the 
Inhabitation Test. Inhabitation takes a number of days 
equal to the spirit’s Force and is considered part of the 
ritual; thus the magician must continuously attend to the 
vessel during this time.
ALLY SPIRIT ABILITIES
Ally spirits follow standard spirit rules, with the follow-
ing exceptions:
AID SORCERY AND AID STUDY
When using Aid Sorcery and Aid Study services, an ally 
spirit is considered appropriate for every spell category.
ATTRIBUTES
An ally’s Physical and Astral attributes equal its Force. 
However, allies start with an Edge attribute equal to the 
Edge of its conjurer. Inhabitation allies follow the rules 
for the Inhabitation power (p. 195) to determine phys-
ical attributes.
LOYALTY
Allies are more loyal than normal spirits because that 
loyalty is part of the spirit’s formula. Because of this, 
an ally will serve a character until their master’s death 
(or near-death) frees them. Unlike normal spirits, an ally 
might go out of its way to assist its master or volunteer 
helpful information. On the other hand, a mistreated 
ally can potentially turn on its master. Allies are consid-
ered to start with a Loyalty rating of 6 (see p. 55, SR5), 
but a master’s particularly callous behavior toward her 
spirit or other spirits can potentially lower this. See Ally 
Spirit Loyalty, p. 207.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH    201
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p204 =====
MAGIC SKILL USE
Every ally spirit is considered a full Magician (see p. 
69, SR5) and can be designed with any magical skills 
known to its summoner, except skills in the Conjuring 
group. Allies also may not initiate, and an ally inhabit-
ing a vessel may not astrally project.
NATIVE PLANE
An ally’s native metaplane is specified by the spirit for-
mula and can be used to destroy the spirit by making a 
metaplanar quest (p. 140) to that plane.
OPEN-ENDED SERVICE
An ally’s services are never exhausted, and the ally can 
perform any unbound or bound spirit service (see p. 
302, SR5) an unlimited number of times, including Re-
sist Drain (see below). Ally spirits do not count against 
a magician’s limit of bound spirits.
RESIST DRAIN
A magician casting a spell may choose to have her ally 
spirit take the spell’s Drain instead. This can be done in 
two different ways. Either use the ally’s Magic attribute 
to determine if Drain is Physical or not and have the 
spirit resist the Drain as normal, or the magician may 
buy one extra hit on her Drain Resistance Test in ex-
change for her ally suffering one box of Physical dam-
age (which the ally cannot resist). Regardless of the 
method, using this service is incredibly painful for the 
spirit and will foster hatred in the spirit if abused.
SENSE LINK
Ally spirits have the power of Sense Link (p. 198), 
which let them share sensory data with their conjurers 
at a limited range. The conjurer may not target spells 
through this power.
ENHANCING AN ALLY
Sometimes you want to give your ally spirit a little 
more oomph—add new forms, powers, skills, or spells 
or increase the spirit’s total Force. This enhancement 
requires first modifying your ally spirit’s formula. Mod-
ifying the formula requires either an Arcana + Logic 
[Mental] (Force x 5, 1 day) Extended Test or a meta-
planar quest. 
The rebinding ritual, known as a Ritual of Change, 
must be performed in a magical lodge with a Force 
equal to or greater than the ally. Spend the usual 
amount of binding reagents, and pay Karma equal 
to all the relevant changes to the spirit. However, 
increasing an ally’s Force with a Ritual of Change re-
quires 16 Karma per point of Force beyond the spirit’s 
initial Force.
An Inhabitation Test is not necessary for inhabiting 
allies, but the conjurer may choose to provide a new 
vessel for the spirit to merge with.
LOSING AN ALLY
A magician who routinely mistreats his ally spirit is just 
asking for it to eventually turn on him. Also, a magician 
who is overly dependent on his ally or regularly endan-
gers it can risk making the ally resentful, which may 
cause it to seek freedom. An ally can only break away 
during a Ritual of Change or if its master is knocked out 
by Drain or by Physical damage, and it will only make 
the attempt if it feels it has been wronged in some way.
When an ally attempts to break free, it makes a Force 
x 2 [Force] test against the magician’s Binding + Magic 
[Mental]. If the spirit generates any net hits, it goes free 
and may become a free spirit (gamemaster’s discretion).
If an ally successfully breaks free during a Ritual of 
Change, the ritual fails: the reagents and time are spent, 
but the Karma remains unspent. The magician must also 
resist a Drain Value equal to twice the number of hits the 
spirit got on its test. If the magician is incapacitated by 
the Drain, the ally immediately goes free.
AVATAR SPIRITS
In game terms, avatars are powerful free spirits that can 
act as a magician’s spirit guide. Attacking or using magi-
cal skills against an avatar is usually futile, as it can result 
in the magician being transported to the metaplanes, 
unable to use magic for a time, or some other conse-
quence of the gamemaster’s choosing. If in danger, an 
avatar spirit will instantly vanish to the metaplanes.
Avatar spirits are intended to be used for roleplaying 
opportunities. They can act as a warning of impending 
doom or they can play devil’s advocate. In any case, an av-
atar spirit should never be something players can exploit. 
FREE SPIRITS
The following rules offer guidelines for using free spir-
its in a Shadowrun game.
BORN FREE
Whenever a spirit becomes uncontrolled, the game-
master decides whether it becomes a free spirit. Bound 
spirits with a Force of 6 or higher tend to become free 
spirits due to a long association with metahumanity 
and the natural world, but lesser spirits, especially un-
bound ones, tend to return to the metaplanes.
To randomly determine whether a spirit goes free, 
have the spirit make an Edge [Force] (3) Test. If success-
ful, the spirit becomes free and has a starting Edge of 
1. Every net hit increases the spirit’s Edge by 1. Failure 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
202    THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p205 =====
means the spirit departs to the metaplanes. Unbound 
spirits generally do not go free and suffer a –4 dice pool 
modifier for the test. On the other hand, spirits that have 
had memorable or frequent encounters with metahu-
manity receive a +2 dice pool modifier.
NEW POWERS
Every free spirit gains the Banishing Resistance power 
(p. 194) and is considered a full Magician (p. 69, SR5) 
with the exception that they may never have skills in 
the Conjuring group and may not astrally project from 
an inhabited vessel unless it has the Astral Projection 
power (p. 204). Also, when a spirit becomes free, it 
gains a number of new powers equal to its Edge attri-
bute. After that, each time the spirit’s Edge increases, 
the spirit also gains another new power. New powers 
can be chosen from any of the following:
•	
The original spirit type’s list of optional powers.
•	
One of these spirit powers: Astral Gateway, Aura 
Masking, Divining, Energy Drain (Essence), Ma-
terialization, Possession, or Realistic Form.
•	
Any metamagic technique available to meta-
human initiates (except those from the Spiritual 
Arts, p. 147). Free spirits use Edge instead of ini-
tiate grade. Free spirits may also possess metam-
agics currently unknown to metahumanity, which 
can provide gamemasters with a unique opportu-
nity to introduce a new metamagical technique.
•	
A unique power chosen from the list under Free 
Spirit Powers on p. 204.
FREE SPIRIT SERVICES
A free spirit does not normally owe services to anyone, 
but it can perform any service a bound spirit can perform 
(p. 302, SR5) if it wishes to. A free spirit can be bound by 
its spirit formula (see below) and compelled to perform 
services, but it does not return to the metaplanes when 
the services are exhausted or its master dies. 
TRUE NAMES
The true name of a spirit is a complex, arcane formula that 
represents the sum total of the spirit’s essence and nature. 
Although intricate and abstract, an identified spirit formu-
la can be transcribed by the Arcana skill into recognizable 
symbols and terms. Anyone who possesses a copy of a 
spirit formula can command the free spirit that the formu-
la represents. Because of this, few free spirits are willing 
to allow multiple copies of their spirit formulas to exist.
LEARNING  
THE SPIRIT FORMULA
A spirit formula can be learned via several different 
methods:
•	
Find Physical Location: A spirit’s true name can 
be physically imprinted on an object, a person, 
or even a place that was near the spirit when it 
first broke free, but free spirits often relocate any 
object imprinted with its true name at the first 
opportunity. The true name itself is similar to 
an astral signature and can be identified with an 
Assensing + Intuition [Astral] (3) Test. Translat-
ing the true name into a spirit formula requires 
an Arcana + Logic [Mental] (spirit’s Force x 5, 1 
day) Extended Test. A bound spirit can assist in 
this task as an Aid Study service, regardless of 
the spirit’s type. The spirit formula takes a form 
appropriate for the spirit’s tradition: a thauma-
turgic formula for a hermetic mage, a totemic 
statuette for a shaman, and so on.
•	
Metaplanar Quest: An initiate may learn a spir-
it’s true name by undertaking a metaplanar quest 
(p. 140) to the spirit’s native metaplane. A spir-
it’s metaplane can be obvious or obscure. With-
out obvious clues, a magician must either suc-
ceed in an Assensing + Intuition [Astral] (2) Test 
if observing the spirit directly or an Assensing 
+ Intuition [Astral] (5) Test if assensing an astral 
signature. A metaplanar quest for a spirit’s true 
name should be an appropriately harrowing and 
difficult undertaking, and it might require a spirit 
guide to reach the necessary plane. A successful 
quest etches the true name in the initiate’s mind; 
at any time thereafter, he can translate it into a 
spirit formula with an Arcana + Logic [Mental] 
(spirit’s Force x 5, 1 day) Extended Test.
•	
Design Formula: If a magician directly observ-
ing the spirit succeeds in an Assensing + Intu-
ition [Astral] (5) Test, she can attempt to design 
a functional spirit formula from scratch. Doing 
so requires an Arcana + Logic [Mental] (spirit’s 
Force x 10, 1 day) Extended Test.
SPIRIT FORMULA COPIES
A spirit is instinctively aware of the location of all cop-
ies of its spirit formula—where any of them are when 
they are created, moved, or destroyed—no matter how 
many astral barriers exist between the spirit and the 
formula. If a new copy is made, the spirit automatically 
becomes aware of its location.
FREE SPIRITS  
AND KARMA
Free spirits need Karma to grow in power, but unlike 
characters, they cannot earn it for themselves. A free 
spirit must receive Karma as a freely given gift from a 
metahuman; it cannot take Karma for itself unless it has 
the rare Energy Drain (Karma) power (p. 205). Negoti-
ate a deal with a free spirit, and it will likely ask for Kar-
ma as payment; some spirits may ask for services, con-
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH    203
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p206 =====
tacts, unique enchantments, or even material wealth, 
but generally Karma is what they value above all else.
FEEDING THE FREE SPIRIT
Giving a free spirit Karma requires either a spirit pact (p. 
205) or a ritual involving the spirit’s formula. Although a 
spirit needs Karma, allowing metahumans access to its 
spirit formula places itself in a vulnerable position. This 
means the spirit’s best interest is to keep donors hap-
py—or dead. The ritual to give Karma takes 1 hour per 
point of Karma given.
USING KARMA
A free spirit can use Karma to improve itself in the fol-
lowing ways. See Character Advancement, p. 103, SR5 
for more details.
•	
It may improve its attributes separately. Each at-
tribute begins at the Force the spirit had when it 
went free. Free spirits have no racial maximum.
•	
It may improve or purchase new skills.
•	
It may initiate as a magician does, but doing so 
grants a new spirit power per grade rather than 
a metamagical technique.
•	
It may increase its Force by 1 point at a time by 
paying Karma equaling the new Force x 10. Rais-
ing Force increases all of the spirit’s attributes 
and powers that are based on Force.
BINDING A FREE SPIRIT
The inherent power of a true name allows anyone, even 
mundanes, to summon and bind a free spirit.
SUMMONING A FREE SPIRIT
To call forth a free spirit, the summoner must possess the 
spirit formula and concentrate on the spirit. The spirit will 
be drawn to the formula and manifest nearby, usually with 
a bad temper. This summoning generates no services, but 
no roll is required, and the summoner suffers no Drain. 
Also, magic cannot prevent this action from occurring. 
Even a spirit possessing a vessel must abandon the ves-
sel and appear if summoned this way. A spirit inhabiting a 
vessel is resistant to this pull since its essence is anchored 
to the physical plane, but it must travel toward the sum-
moner by the fastest physical means possible. If the sum-
moner moves before the inhabiting spirit arrives, the spirit 
is no longer drawn toward the summoner.
THE BINDING RITUAL
If the summoner chooses to bind the spirit, the pres-
ence of the spirit’s formula prevents the spirit from 
harming the summoner during the binding ritual. The 
ritual to bind a free spirit requires (Force x 25) drams 
of binding reagents. The ritual itself may be conducted 
anywhere—no magical lodge is needed—and it takes 
a number of hours equal to the spirit’s Force. At the 
end of the ritual, the summoner makes an Opposed 
Test by rolling his Binding + Willpower [Mental] against 
the spirit’s Force + Edge. If the character wins, the spirit 
owes a number of services equal to the number of net 
hits. This ritual also produces no Drain.
The spirit cannot harm the summoner until its ser-
vices are exhausted, but the spirit can still plot to put its 
master in harm’s way. The spirit can also be re-bound 
with another binding ritual an unlimited number of 
times. If the master glitches on the rebinding test, the 
spirit gets 1 Combat Turn to do anything it wants be-
fore the binding takes effect and places it back under the 
master’s control. If the master critical glitches the test, 
all services owed are lost and the spirit becomes free 
once again.
BANISHING  
A FREE SPIRIT
Free spirits can be banished just like any other spirit (p. 
301, SR5), but all of them possess the Banishing Resis-
tance power (p. 194). Since a free spirit is usually un-
bound and owes no services that can be banished away, 
each net hit the banisher receives reduces the spirit’s 
unspent Edge (bound free spirits add their Edge and ser-
vices together). A free spirit whose Edge is reduced to 0 
in this way is temporarily disrupted and vanishes to its na-
tive metaplane. It may return when its Edge replenishes.
A free spirit that has been banished or disrupted 
can be prevented from ever returning if the banisher 
immediately destroys a copy of the spirit’s formula and 
succeeds in an Opposed Test between her Banishing + 
Willpower [Mental] and the spirit’s Force + Edge. Unfor-
tunately, there’s no way to tell whether this succeeded 
or not, unless the spirit later returns. The banishing at-
tempt may be repeated, but this requires another copy 
of the spirit’s formula.
FREE SPIRIT POWERS
The following powers are only available to free spirits.
ASTRAL PROJECTION
Type: M	 	
Action: Complex
Range: Self	
Duration: Special
The spirit can astrally project, just like a magician (p. 
313, SR5). This power is only available to spirits with the 
Inhabitation power. A spirit that does not return to its 
body after (Force x 2) hours is disrupted.
MUTABLE FORM
Type: P	 	
Action: Auto
Range: Self	
Duration: Special
Spirits normally materialize with the same form ev-
ery time, but Mutable Form allows the spirit to appear 
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
204    THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH >>
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)

===== PDF p207 =====
differently each time. The spirit’s aura is unchanged, 
however. If the spirit also has the Realistic Form power 
(p. 198), add the spirit’s Force to any Disguise Tests (p. 
133, 136, SR5) it makes to impersonate someone. This 
power is only available to spirits with Materialization.
PERSONAL DOMAIN
Type: M	 	
Action: Auto
Range: LOS	
Duration: Sustained
The spirit leaves its personal mark over an area of 
astral space, up to 10,000 square meters per point of 
Force. Over time this area accumulates a background 
count aspected toward the tradition the spirit represents 
(p. 30). The gamemaster determines how quickly the 
background accumulates, but the process should take 
months or longer, and the background count should not 
exceed the spirit’s Force / 2.
REGENERATION
Type: P	 	
Action: Auto
Range: Self	
Duration: Always
Similar to the critter power of Regeneration (p. 400, 
SR5), this power only applies to the spirit’s materialized, 
possessed, or inhabited form. If the spirit possesses or 
inhabits a formerly living vessel, the vessel slowly re-
generates back to its living form. For example, a wooden 
homunculus begins to grow new leaves, and a corpse 
regains a semblance of life.
SPIRIT PACT
Type: M	 	
Action: Special
Range: Special	
Duration: Special
A spirit with this power can enter into one or more 
spirit pacts (p. 137). The gamemaster has the final say on 
what pacts a spirit can enter into. For rules about con-
ducting a spirit pact, see Spirit Pact (Contractual), p. 136.
GREATER POWERS
Greater powers are so dramatic, unusual, or powerful 
that they can often define an entire encounter with a 
spirit. Gamemasters should keep these powers rare 
and limit a spirit to only one of them.
HIDDEN LIFE
Type: P	 	
Action: Complex
Range: Touch	
Duration: Permanent
The spirit uses this power to permanently place its life 
force in a creature, place, or object. As long as the hid-
ing place remains safe, the spirit cannot be permanently 
banished or destroyed by any means. The spirit is able to 
return after a year and a day if banished with its spirit for-
mula, but a character holding the spirit formula may call 
the spirit sooner.
The hiding place gains Immunity to Normal Weapons 
with a Magic equal to the spirit’s and Immunity to Age (p. 
397, SR5). If the hidden life holder is destroyed, the life 
force returns to the spirit, and the spirit is treated normally.
ENERGY DRAIN (KARMA)
As described on p. 195, with a Range of Touch and 
causing Physical damage.
VESSEL TRADING
Type: P	 	
Action: Complex
Range: Touch	
Duration: Instant
A spirit with Possession may choose to evict the life 
force of a living vessel, either by ejecting the victim’s life 
force as an astrally projecting creature or putting the vic-
tim’s life force in the spirit’s old vessel. If the old vessel 
already contains a life force that was subdued by Pos-
session, the victim is forced to astrally project instead. 
Follow the standard rules for the Possession power (p. 
197). Victims placed into a living or nonliving vessel 
cannot control the vessel like a possessing spirit and are 
trapped there. The only possible methods of escape is 
if a free spirit with this power switches them back, the 
victim can astrally project, or the vessel is exposed to an 
astral rift or an entity with the Astral Gateway power (p. 
194). A victim trapped in an inanimate vessel or astral 
space will feel his life force ebbing away, and he will die 
after (Magic or Essence) x 2 hours.
WEALTH
Type: P	 	
Action: Complex
Range: LOS	
Duration: Special
A spirit with this power can generate precious metals, 
jewels, and other rare items of great value. Where these 
items come from is a question no spirit has answered. 
Once per month, the spirit may make a Magic + Edge 
[Force] Test. Every hit generates 10,000 nuyen worth of 
mineral alchemical reagents, usually precious metals or 
gems. These permanent creations indefinitely carry the 
spirit’s astral signature. The markets being what they are, 
characters may find it difficult to sell magical gems.
A spirit with this power may also create a similar 
amount of temporary wealth each day, but the next 
time the suns sets or rises, these valuable items vanish 
or transform into dirt or other worthless substances. Be-
cause of this, savvy businessmen are reluctant to pur-
chase magical gold.
GREAT FORM 
SPIRITS
The rules for great form spirits can be found under 
Summon Great Form Spirit (Minion) on p. 136 and In-
vocation on p. 147.
>> STREET GRIMOIRE <<
<< THE IMMATERIAL TOUCH    205
InMediaRes Productions LLC (Order #38901858)
