
===== PAGE 43 =====
CANNONS/
LAUNCHERS
HK 82A1
One of the smallest available grenade launchers, 
the 82A1 is primarily used by security forces to 
dispense gas grenades to quell riots, but it also 
finds use as a support weapon with light infan-
try units. Tipping the scales at 2.5 kilos, the 82A1 
weighs less than half as much as a standard gre-
nade launcher and has considerably less bulk. Its 
compact design makes it less well-suited for lon-
ger-range engagements.
HK 82A1 (GRENADE LAUNCHER)
ACC DAM AP MODE RC AMMO AVAIL COST
3 * * SS (1) 1(b) 6F 1,500¥
* As grenade
Note: This weapon suffers a –1 dice pool penalty at Long range 
and a –2 dice pool penalty at Extreme range. It has a Concealability 
Modifier of +4 with its folding stock retracted.
> My life would be a lot easier if security forces would start 
using gas grenades. Fewer parts to replace that way.
> Borderline
> Very few units out there can afford to equip everyone on 
a fireteam with Alphas. This is a fairly lightweight, cost-
effective pick for your grenadier.
> Picador
> These fit in larger model briefcases, making them much 
easier to sneak into places than something like a MGL -12. 
They work best when you know ahead of time when you’ll 
need a grenade and what type you’ll need next, but isn’t 
that why we plan, chummers?
> Thorn
M79B1 LAW ROCKET
A single-shot, disposable rocket launcher, the 
M79B1 remains the most common light anti-tank 
weapon in use worldwide. When collapsed, the 
M79B1’s tube forms a watertight seal, protecting 
the rocket from the elements. Once opened, the 
housing cannot be resealed.
M79B1 LAW ROCKET (LAUNCHER)
ACC DAM AP MODE RC AMMO AVAIL COST
4 * * SS — 1(ml) 9F 750¥
* As missile/rocket
Wireless Bonus: You can use the wireless link trigger for your 
missiles, even if you don’t have DNI.
Note: This weapon can only fire anti-vehicular missiles/rockets.
> These have become depressingly common with some of 
the better-equipped gangs out there. It’s not like they all 
have ‘em, but they can get their hands on one if they know 
they’ll need it.
> Turbo Bunny
> I think you may be experiencing some recency bias.
> Butch
> You don’t see someone undercutting Aztechnology on 
price all that often, but this is cheaper than the Striker.
> Hard Exit
> And not as flexible. If you have a platoon and you know 
you’re heading up against some APCs, sure. But if 
you want a weapon that can be adapted to a variety of 
situations, this isn’t for you.
> Red Anya
> Also not for you if you can’t afford to drop 750 nuyen per 
shot.
> Chainmaker
> Rockets are not the favored weapon of the cheap. Which 
makes them unlikely to become too common in gang 
warfare.
> Thorn
> If you’re still standing after I unload a belt of ammo, I 
adapt by using this next.
> Cayman
> We need to hang out more.
> Kane
PHALANX SYSTEMS 
VOGELJAGER II  
MISSILE LAUNCHER
The Vogeljäger is a man-portable air-defense 
system (MANPADS) that has become the bane of 
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
42    EXPANDED ARSENAL >>
===== PAGE 44 =====
helicopter and VTOL pilots everywhere. The in-
cluded imaging scope comes standard with both 
thermographic and low-light enhancements. 
Missiles fired at airborne targets receive a +1 dice 
pool modifier, while missiles fired at other types 
of targets suffer a –3 dice pool penalty. Addition-
ally, sensor-equipped missiles fired from a Vo-
geljäger receive a +2 dice pool bonus for sensor 
attacks against airborne targets.
Standard Accessories: Imaging scope (top)
PHALANX SYSTEMS VOGELJÄGER II MISSILE LAUNCHER  
(MISSILE LAUNCHER)
ACC DAM AP MODE RC AMMO AVAIL COST
5 * * SS — 1(ml) 20F 2,600¥
* As missile
Wireless Bonus: This weapon’s IFF (Identify Friend or Foe) al-
lows its user to reroll the direction of scatter (p. 182, SR5) once per 
missile. The user must use the second roll.
> I’m not sure if the smoke plume these create is distinctive 
or if it’s simply something you never forget, but if you’ve 
seen one, you know the feeling. These are the reason 
you pay extra for the stick jockey who can go faster than 
anyone else in tight terrain.
> Rigger X
> Another reason asymmetrical warriors like to set up camp 
in rugged terrain. If you force the Banshee to bank a few 
times before setting down on the one open field, you’ve 
probably slowed it enough to take a shot.
> Hard Exit
> I had a job clearing out a tunnel network of belligerents 
in advance of a conventional troop landing for this very 
reason. Had an Ares Dragon a few klicks away make some 
noise, which got them to fire up their MANPADS. A few 
seconds of work from our ELINT crew, and they detonated 
in the tunnels.
> Picador
> I think the moral of this story is that the decker is always 
the hero.
> Slamm-0!
> The moral of the story is if you can afford to have pretty 
toys, you can afford to have Matrix security.
> Pistons
TERRACOTTA X-6 MGL
Renraku’s entry into the portable grenade launch-
er market, the X-6 has been quickly adopted by a 
variety of corporate and paramilitary outfits in Af-
rica, raising hopes that its market may be world-
wide. Certified gold after enduring Terracotta’s 
stringent quality control process including drop 
tests, salt-fog mist, and practical application, the 
X-6 offers fantastic value for the cost. The X-6 
holds six 40mm minigrenades in a rotating cylin-
der and sports a foregrip to help minimize recoil.
Standard Accessories: Foregrip (under)
TERRACOTTA X-6 MGL (GRENADE LAUNCHER)
ACC DAM AP MODE RC AMMO AVAIL COST
4 * * SS 1 6(cy) 8F 2,000¥
* As grenade
> A lot of the “stringent practical application” testing 
occurred in various hotspots around the globe. Make sure 
you’re getting a direct-to-market model and not one of the 
early prototypes.
> Picador
> Amazing how often Renraku products pass Renraku 
quality control.
> Clockwork
> The foregrip is nice for distributing weight, but the rate of 
fire on this is noticeably lower than its competitors. Recoil 
is rarely an issue.
> Hard Exit
> Foregrips look badass.
> Slamm-0!
OTHER RANGED 
WEAPONS
NARCOJECT GAS GUN
The Narcoject Gas Gun is a shotgun-sized weap-
on designed to allow for easier distribution of 
inhalation-vector toxins; provided the user has 
adequate protection, the Gas Gun is much more 
accurate than mines or thrown grenades. The Gas 
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
<< EXPANDED ARSENAL    43
===== PAGE 64 =====
can work all the basic bugs out, might as well crash some 
shadowrunner who picked up his training ghost knows 
where and will ride this thing for kicks. I wouldn’t be 
surprised if some have already had the pleasure of taking 
a trip to Africa and getting to play with some fun new toys 
in the jungles of the Congo.
> Turbo Bunny
HUMMINGBIRD
I’ll still bet on the Sky Whale, but these models 
might be a close second to market. There are sev-
eral models, varying from small- to large-drone 
size, that have the same power limitations as the 
Crotch Rocker but don’t need to haul any extra 
mass. At least not until they need to be outfitted 
with arms or sensors to serve an actual purpose 
other than just floating around. To work out these 
kinks and test ways to possibly make improve-
ments for the other small craft, these things are 
all over their African facility, along with numerous 
reports from testing on Mars.
HUMMINGBIRD (SMALL)
HAND SPEED ACCEL BOD ARM PILOT SENS SEATS
5 3 2 4 2 3 3 —
HUMMINGBIRD (MEDIUM)
HAND SPEED ACCEL BOD ARM PILOT SENS SEATS
4 4 4 7 6 3 3 —
HUMMINGBIRD (LARGE)
HAND SPEED ACCEL BOD ARM PILOT SENS SEATS
4 5 3 10 8 3 3 —
> Now this is where I don’t see the difference in current tech 
versus what these things can do. We have plenty of flyers 
of all sizes, and the systems they use work just fine. What 
benefit do these grav-drones offer?
> Sounder
> Operation in space, for one. The specs point out that the 
system functions as a drive not just within a planetary 
gravitational field, but also outside that field. Other than 
some small rocket models that SK, Evo, and Ares use for 
their space operations, there aren’t a lot of drones capable 
of space flight. If I’ve read the specs correctly, every one of 
these things would be just as maneuverable in zero-G as 
they are on Earth; in fact, they might be more so without 
the additional gravity of Earth to contend with. 
> Orbital DK
> That also means they can move between the two. The 
same drone that is operating dirtside can move on up 
or get moved on up without any issue. Versatility goes 
a long way.
> Icarus
> Payload. They’re currently limited, but that won’t last long. 
Once they settle the power consumption issues, these 
things generate a field that makes a one hundred-kilo 
cannon move around like a one-kilo pistol. 
> Beaker
> Ceiling. The vertical ceiling on most drones is limited by 
their drive system, mass, and the density of the air around 
them. Lift has to be generated in some way. This system 
removes the concept of lift and therefore expands the 
ceiling of flight for the drones, and all these other craft, 
right out into space. Systems in the drone will have to be 
designed for the other rigors of space, but it’s more of a 
theoretical talk right here, not looking at some specific 
model. And as for other craft, well, they’d need some 
way to protect the squishy beings inside them from 
vacuum, cold, radiation, and a long list of other space 
unpleasantries.
> Turbo Bunny
> Anyone wondering if all of this is really Evo and their 
Monad minions developing tech, or have they found 
something on Mars? Maybe this is all just reverse 
engineering some alien tech. I still have pics from the Big 
D’s will of some crazy stuff on Mars.
> Grinder
> And that wasn’t Plan 9. Or 10. What is this VPN coming to?
> Slamm-0! 
SKYGUIDE
With plans for a global launch of the Sprawl Wan-
derer in the ’80s, Evo had to develop a system 
to manage all this new air traffic. For that, they’re 
developing SkyGuide. Like GridGuide, and com-
patible to a certain degree (can you say espio-
nage?), this system controls the guidance system 
of these low-flying craft through what they call 
SkyLanes. The system is currently being devel-
oped at their African facility, and boardroom 
gossip has a plan for developing for a system in 
several sprawls across Africa. The system appar -
ently uses stacked rather than lateral lanes, ap-
proximately five meters apart, and it has no com-
ponent for large cargo craft. That could change, 
but even a small grav-drive vehicle can haul a lot 
of mass, though volume is a limitation. 
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
<< MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS    63
===== PAGE 65 =====
> Another system to frag with! Yay!
> Slamm-0!
> While all that grav-drive stuff is all the rage for you guys 
thinking about paydata targets, this is a much better 
idea. Not every corp has the resources to develop these 
grav systems, but they all have enough codemonkeys to 
handle a system like this, and competing for contracts in 
this arena will be far more lucrative around the world than 
who can build and sell the most flying cars. GridGuide 
started as a single corp, and now just about every corp 
has a GridGuide-compatible system they put in place 
under the GridGuide moniker. 
> Icarus
> I was wondering why anyone had included this in 
this data drop until you put that up there Icarus. 
This isn’t something we can drive or shoot, but it’s 
definitely something we can steal and sell to make 
some serious cash.
> Stone
 
ANTI-GRAVITY/ 
GRAVJACK GRENADE
Tough to fight when you can’t keep your footing 
or when you suddenly feel like you weigh 500 
kilos, and you’re not a troll linebacker. This un-
assuming little piece of weapon-tech creates a 
field of altered gravity. Those caught in the effect 
find themselves suddenly weightless or fighting 
against their abuptly crippling mass. The basics 
of the tech involve a dispersion of microparticles 
into the air followed by an energy discharge from 
the core device. Each device works in both direc-
tions. The user selects which energy pulse will be 
released when activated. The two biggest prob-
lems with these are materials and device timing. 
The material used in the microparticles isn’t easy 
to produce as it’s a combination of rare-earth 
metals that are finicky when interacting together. 
As for functional issues, the microparticles need 
time for dispersion but can’t get too far or the 
pulse won’t jump properly. Too little dispersion 
and the effects are too extreme for Evo’s design 
purposes.
A-G/GRAVJACK GRENADE
DAM AP BLAST
— — 4m–10m
> I’ve seen one of these things in action. I had no idea what 
I was seeing, though. I thought it was some kind of mass 
levitate spell. Our slinger said there was no magic around, 
but I thought maybe it was hidden. I don’t know mojo. 
We were hitting a convoy running between Seattle and 
Denver. We hadn’t backtracked the owners thoroughly 
beforehand, because we didn’t have time. The defense 
team started coming at us and all of a sudden we were 
wheels up, in a black Universe that was definitely not 
designed for flight. The truck tumbled, and we were done 
with our pursuit. I should have known something was 
up when a few minutes later—while we were licking our 
wounds and working on a ride, a cleanup team showed 
up to secure the area. We got KO’d so they could lock 
down the site.
> Grinder
> Field-testing is a frequent opportunity for runners to get 
a glimpse at the future, but it’s also a chance for them to 
get screwed by Mr. Johnson—or more accurately, the 
mega behind them. The things we field-test usually carry 
failsafes and anti-tampers in order to prevent them from 
being sold off, and they also help corps clean up a mess 
in case their property winds up in the wrong hands. These 
devices are especially dangerous, because a slight tweak 
to the settings could leave a bunch of evidence smashed 
into oblivion.
> Beaker
> I’m interested in the broad area effects of these devices. 
When they detonate, what happens to random objects or 
objects in motion? I want to see the field-research data on 
this stuff.
> Plan 9
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
64    MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS >>
===== PAGE 66 =====
> If I snag some data, I’ll pop it up here. This looks like a fun 
toy to play with if we can get our hands on one. I’ll drop 
everyone a PM if I manage to get something.
> Mika 
GRAVITY  
SHIELDING/ARMOR
If you can manipulate gravity, you can manipulate a 
pretty serious force for good or ill. This system was 
originally designed as a deflection system for their 
Star Ferry program. Its initial purpose was to keep 
objects from hitting the ship while it flew through 
space at ridiculous speeds. Evo couldn’t just let it 
stop there, though. They’ve worked to miniaturize 
everything they’ve designed in an effort to apply 
it to personal tech, both for use with those on their 
exodus ship and as a product for consumer con-
sumption. This tech is a prime example of what al-
lying with the Monads has done for Evo. 
The system is designed to supplement stan-
dard armor with a narrow field of repellent energy 
that slows down any incoming object. It’s ineffec-
tive against any form of energy weapon, but stan-
dard ballistic ammo and all sorts of melee weap-
ons face a decrease in their overall efficiency. Like 
many of the other systems discussed here, power 
is an issue. On a starship, it’s easy to provide the 
power, even on the massive scale it’s needed for 
there. But even at the small scale that’s needed for 
a coat, there’s a lot of energy. The current solu-
tion is a manual activation system that allows the 
wearer to turn the effect on and off. An automated 
system, connected to a sensor that detects incom-
ing threats, is in the works but has proven fallible 
in testing.
GRAVITY SHIELDING/ARMOR
ARMOR ARMOR RATING
GravArmor + Variable
Features: Power Cell (20)
Wireless: The Armor Rating can be changed with a Free 
Action via DNI.
The Armor Rating of the device is determined by the 
amount of power in use. For every Combat Turn the system 
is active, it uses 1 point of power per each additional point of 
Armor Rating. The system can recharge at a rate of 1 point of 
power every ten minutes.
> I’m going to work for Evo. That’s it.
> Slamm-0!
> These are in field-testing. I’m positive! There’s a crew 
in Lagos decked out in long black coats that have been 
rumored to be bulletproof. They’re building a bit of legend 
around them that pulled my attention their way. I dug into 
what kinds of things they’re doing, other than just being 
bulletproof, and found they’re connected to a lot of ops 
that would be beneficial to Evo’s bottom line. 
> Hard Exit
> I’ve heard of the guys you’re talking about. I was in Lagos 
a few days ago and the streets were buzzing with story 
of one of them going down. Local footage showed the 
A-G/GRAVJACK GRENADE RULES
The A-G/GravJack is thrown like any other grenade but 
requires one additional Simple Action (Free if the wireless is 
activated) to prep the settings. There are four settings to adjust: 
Detonation (Impact, Timed, or Wireless), Duration (1 to 4 Combat 
Turns), Gravity Effect (Anti or Increased), and Blast Radius 
(Between 4 meters and 10 meters; dome shaped). Once set, the 
grenade is thrown using a standard Throwing Weapons attack 
and detonates based on its settings. 
Anti-Gravity: Immediate Agility (8) Test; Physical Test Dice 
Pool Modifier of 8 – hits; Disorientation (Duration + 2 Combat 
Rounds); leaving the field requires an Agility (8 + Meters to edge) 
Extended Test.
Heavy Gravity: Immediate Strength (8) test; Physical Test Dice 
Pool Modifier of 8 – hits; Knocked prone (Duration; Lift/Carry (6) Test 
to stand); leaving the field requires a Strength (8 + meters to edge) 
Extended Test.
Vehicles: A vehicle targeted by either must resist the damage 
of a Crash immediately. The driver must also make an appropriate 
Piloting (6) test or lose control of the vehicle. 
Glitch and Critical Glitch Effects: A glitch means the particle 
dispersion occurred before throwing it, and the user is affected by 
the desired effect. A critical glitch results in an overly dense field 
hitting the area of effect with crushing levels of gravity. Using half 
the blast radius setting, everyone in the adjusted blast radius must 
resist 18P damage at –8AP .
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
<< MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS    65
===== PAGE 67 =====
gunfight that took him down. It wasn’t a bullet, but an 
incident with the coat. It collapsed inward and crushed the 
guy wearing it. 
> Kane
> These systems could, and should, and probably are, 
being tested on vehicles of all sorts as a safety feature. 
Not that corps are going to bother with that. Gotta figure 
out a military use first. 
> Orbital DK
PERSONAL  
GRAVITY DEVICES
These are similar in function to the grenades they 
designed but are intended to function on a slight-
ly smaller and more personal scale. The design 
has two primary functional setting: Lighten and 
Lockdown. The device emits a narrow field that 
alters local gravitational effects. Its primary de-
sign purpose was to help exploration of distant 
worlds, adjusting the local gravity to match that 
needed for metahuman comfort. Within the base 
gravity of Earth, it has some other alternate areas 
of potential effect. On the Lighten setting, it re-
duces the local effects of gravity, allowing faster 
climbing, faster movement, and further jumping. 
Switched to Lockdown, it increases local gravi-
ty, anchoring its user in place, or as currently 
planned by Evo, locking them in a single spot, be-
cause again, like the A-G/GravJack grenade, the 
device has multiple settings to vary the strength 
of the field.  
> Oh yeah! These are going to create the next amazing 
sport. Imagine running up walls! Leaping over other 
players! Sprinting at cheetah speeds! Someone want to 
join me in hacking Evo and planting a proposal for a new 
sports league with these?
> Slamm-0!
> I know plenty of people who can already run up walls.
> Mika
> Don’t we need some rules for the game first? 
> Turbo Bunny 
> Nah. Corps will figure that out later. We need support and 
some idea men pushing it. Maybe drop it on Horizon, get 
them to go after the data from Evo.
> Slamm-0!
> I wonder how large the field is. Is it possible to carry 
another person? Does that cause issues? Man, all this 
prototype tech leaves me with a ton of questions.
> Beaker 
MAG ROUNDS
I found the specs on these, but unless they do some 
serious construction design changes or build loca-
tions specifically for use with these rounds, I don’t 
see a big reason to use them. In general, these bul-
lets are made with a specialized magnetic alloy that 
reacts with the construction material used on the 
craft the Monads are building. Their magnetic prop-
erties interact with the properties of the hull mate-
rial to stop the bullet with minimal damage. They 
even leave the slug intact, making them reusable. 
The goal is to avoid hull breaches while still being 
able to defend the ship with deadly ranged weap-
ons. Basic ballistic analysis indicates the rounds 
have similar flight properties to their standard ball 
ammunition counterparts, but the additional mass 
of the material they’re constructed from gives 
them a slightly harder impact, so their ability to be 
stopped by a specific construction material is not 
the only thing that makes them special, though the 
cost based on material availability will likely be pro-
hibitive once they hit the market.
MAG ROUNDS
DV AP
+2 +2
Note: These rounds ignore all bonuses provided by Grav 
Armor and cancel Personal Grav Devices and grav fields for 
grav drive vehicles.
PGD POWER USE
The PGD uses one point of power per level of use per 
Combat Turn on the Lighten settings, and one point per level 
per minute on the Lockdown setting. The basic power cell for 
the device has 10 points of power and takes 10 minutes per 
point to recharge. 
Lighten: Each level in use provides a virtual increase 
to the user’s Strength and Agility for determining their rate 
of movement, as well as their dice pool for Running tests, 
Climbing tests, and Jumping tests.  
Lockdown: Each level in use provides a virtual decrease 
to the user’s Strength and Agility for determining their rate 
of movement. An Agility or Strength of 0 means they are 
immobilized and incapable of moving. 
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
66    MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS >>
===== PAGE 74 =====
ened bacteria—and designed one that inhib-
its mana in a localized area, effectively eating 
spells—or more accurately, the mana that was 
used to construct the spell. The system doesn’t 
discriminate, so not only are harmful effects halt-
ed, but beneficial ones as well. The system is 
not intended to drain magic, like the strain used 
in Chicago, but evolutionary events have been 
known to occur within the system that lead to re-
sults like this. It happens when you have a crea-
ture that can create several new generations each 
hour. Evolution happens fast, and since these 
strains were all generated from the same ances-
tor, a little evolutionary reversion or variation isn’t 
uncommon. 
The prototype form for this armor was built from 
an Ares-model longcoat with a large hood added. 
The inside has a layer of thin, gel-filled patches, sim-
ilar to their gel-pack system but smaller and not in 
any way worth a damn at stopping anything. Each 
pack is a nutrient solution that sustains the bacteria, 
and the outer layer of the coat is a low-functional-
ity ruthenium that goes clear for short periods each 
day in order to let in sunlight for the mini-system in-
side the packs. As one could guess, there are tons of 
issues with maintaining a self-contained ecosystem 
within the packs even beyond controlling genetic 
mutation. Overpopulation kills off some areas, and 
too little light leads to insufficient food production. 
On top of that, temperature and weather can play 
havoc with the system. 
FAB-ULOUS ARMOR
ARMOR RATING AVAIL COST
8 14P
Note: The rating refers to the Rating of the FAB system, 
not the Armor Rating of the lined coat.
> The field reports on this tech show tons of problems when 
the gel sacs are breached. The FAB strain inside the coat 
can escape into the environment and eventually create an 
arcane dead zone. While this sounds like a great idea to 
some, once in place it’s hard to remove and damages the 
local manasphere. 
> Jimmy No
> No one who uses magic should or will ever wear one of 
these things willingly. Even without the zap tech add-on, it 
frags with magic so bad it’s not worth it. As for other folks, 
this could be the stuff of dreams. Especially those with the 
irrational fear of magic out to get them everywhere they go.
> Ethernaut
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
<< MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS    73
===== PAGE 75 =====
> Anti-magic tech is huge in some places. There’s a growing 
portion of the population that’s fearful of being taken over 
by a magocracy. Even though it’s not at all realistic, it 
doesn’t change the fact they will spend ridiculous sums of 
money to be protected from magic. 
> Lyran
> Figure out a way to add a little Faraday shielding to this 
baby and you can stop all those pesky freaks. No mojo, 
no techno. This sounds like a great idea. I need to send a 
message over to Ares.   
> Clockwork
WHO THE HELL 
THINKS OF  
THESE THINGS
POSTED BY: G1GA8YT3
Welcome to the world of the weird and deadly. 
The powers that be asked me for some insight 
into works coming down the pipeline, specifical-
ly things designed to give a runner a real bad day. 
You can expect to find examples of all this drek 
somewhere in the R&D pipeline of every AAA-
megacorp with an arms division and even more 
terrifying, being developed by AA- and A-rat-
ed megas like boxers trying to fight above their 
weight class. At some point, someone bigger is 
gonna come take their title! Oh, yeah, that’s what 
runners are for! With no further ado, I give you a 
look into the crystal ball.
SMART BULLETS
Smartgun systems use advanced electronics to 
help a shooter overcome their lack of skill and 
training with tech-wizardry. You modify the gun 
and then hope no smarthoop hacker comes 
along and resets the last diagnostic run. Smart 
bullets, on the other hand, are a whole new 
ball game, with the advanced electronics min-
iaturized enough to fit in a conventionally fired 
round. Either the shooter, or a friend they’ve 
handed off the guidance laser to, puts the little 
laser dot on a specific spot and then pulls the 
trigger facing any direction that isn’t leading di-
rectly to a solid surface. The bullet finds its way 
to the target every time. These aren’t real use-
ful indoors, and they don’t steer around things 
well, but a few of these in a magazine and some 
warning shots in the air that suddenly come 
down on the enemies’ heads … yeah, that’s what 
I’m talking about. 
I always like to thank the Brits for the gyrojet. 
Those SAS goons really wanted a way to kill folks 
underwater (or from under the water), and they 
found it with the gyrojet. The gyrojet had its fair 
share of problems, including range issues, the need 
for custom arms, and some stability issues. The last 
was solved with a fold-out fin system, and that led 
to other great gyrojet developments. The other is-
sues have yet to be resolved, but those fins … ah, 
those fins. They gave some real bright boy an idea. 
If it’s got fins, we can steer it!
FAB-ULOUS ARMOR RULES
FAB-ulous armor, when operating correctly, acts similar to 
a localized area of Counterspelling. The wearer gets a number 
of dice equal to the Rating of the armor to use to defend 
against all spells being cast at her or at her immediate vicinity. 
The dice pool is finite, as the FAB have only a limited capacity 
for absorbing the mana before they are overloaded. The dice 
pool refreshes at a rate of 1 point every ten minutes until back 
up to its maximum, which is the Rating of the armor. 
FAB-ulous armor is a standalone system, as the ruthenium, 
specialized gel sacs, temperature-regulating threading, and 
other components cannot be integrated into any other existing 
armor. The ruthenium system is rudimentary and cannot be 
modified without damaging the gel sacs and thus negating the 
function of the armor.
When used as an anti-magic device and put on a target, 
the field functions against all uses of magic, including adept 
abilities, spirit powers and summoning, and alchemical 
concoctions. It can also be integrated with a system to zap 
the wearer if any use of magic is detected. This electrical 
discharge interferes with the FAB and causes an immediate 
reduction in the permanent effective Rating of the coat by 2. 
The Shock variant costs another 500 nuyen. Damage is 
12S(e), –5 AP . 
As a secondary effect, reading the aura of a person 
wearing this armor is almost impossible. Impose a negative 
dice pool modifier equal to 2 x Rating to all Assensing tests 
against the wearer. 
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
74    MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS >>
===== PAGE 76 =====
The gyrojet isn’t common on the streets, but 
once the perfection of its latest targeting system is 
achieved (and we know they don’t really need to 
be perfect …*cough* Excalibur *cough*), street 
sams up and down the block are going to be lin-
ing up for the latest Ares model. This one’s a triple 
threat. Option one: a laser like the smart bullet. 
This is okay, but you still need to point something 
at the target. Option two: GPS targeting. You know 
how GOD is always threatening to bullseye your 
decker with a Thor shot for being a Matrix pain 
in the hoop by using the GPS coordinates that all 
our electronics broadcast, all the time? Well, these 
bullets do the same. Type in a GPS location (down 
to the nanosecond), and the bullet finds its way 
there. It’s capable of steering along major road-
ways. Option three: RFIDs. Whether placed on a 
target or used in conjunction with conventional 
ammunition to “mark” a target, the gyrojet finds 
the RFID signal and drills it! 
Now, while I said the bullet can steer, it still 
can’t stop to wait for doors and it will still get 
stopped, slowed, or damaged beyond functioning 
if it hits something solid before the skull of the tar-
get. They’re still best for outdoor use, but I’m sure 
someone somewhere is working on that. 
> Ares has a design that incorporates building plans 
and flies at slow enough speeds to turn tight corners 
before accelerating into the target. They’ve also tested 
models with miniaturized explosive warheads. Not 
just fragmentation rounds or a small incendiary, but a 
genuine warhead with a microcharge of mil-spec-grade 
boomjuice. 
> Picador
MAKER MAGS  
AND MISSILES
Have you ever been in a firefight, pumping out 
gel rounds like a good little hooder, when all of 
a sudden some goon pops out in some badass 
armor and you suddenly wish you’d loaded those 
APDS rounds? Maker Mags are coming, and 
they’re going to change the way fights roll on the 
streets. No more swapping out mags for those 
specialty rounds, now you just send the Mak -
er Mag a message and it changes up the ammo 
it’s making. No muss, no fuss, and according to 
the projected specs, no wait. That’s the biggest 
issue they’re working out right now—well, that 
and the massive amount of fear people still have 
over anything with nanotech in it. The magazines 
are standard size, though they hold about half 
the ammo, but the type of ammo can be deter -
mined only moments before firing. Currently, 
the reports I’ve seen have round production at 
about half a second. This speed is all good for 
most semi-autos not in the hands of a fragging 
wired-up street blazer, but it caps full-auto at 120 
rounds per minute. That’s still half the fire rate 
of those old crank-fired gatling guns you see in 
the western trids, and nowhere near the needed 
600 to 900 rounds per minutes you’ll need to 
be a worthy AR these days. Efforts to overcome 
the lacking production speed include bulking up 
the magazine, and that’s the sort of thing no one 
but a troll wants. They’re also considering limit-
ing the rounds available in a Maker Mag, which 
was shown to double the production rate and 
increase magazine capacity by fifty percent; and 
finally increasing the number of nanites, which 
was shown to increase the rate of hand-shaking 
in testers who were aware of the reality of CFD, 
but also quadrupled the rate of production with 
only a fifty percent increase in nanite count. 
Alongside Maker Mags, I discovered some 
ongoing work on Maker Missiles (and technically 
rockets as well, but most people can’t explain the 
difference between the two anyway). The Maker 
Missile isn’t built inside the tube by nanites before 
firing—too big and complex for that—but some 
genius at Ares figured they could load a missile 
with nanotech and optimize its payload in flight 
or while still part of the launch vehicle’s payload. 
Target area suddenly crawling with armored vehi-
cles? Tweak the tip payload for maximum punch 
through power. Civvies running everywhere? De-
grade the structure to powderize and go straight 
concussive to deliver the KO instead of the KIA. 
The test reports put the most drastic changes at 
under ten seconds and most payload swaps under 
SMART BULLETS
Smart bullets allow a secondary individual to use a 
secondary guidance system to make the actual attack test. 
This can include firing an RFID round at a target, using a 
laser-guidance system, or using a Computer + Software (Data 
Processing) test to enter GPS coordinates. All of these attack 
tests are Complex Actions, while the shooter can fire a number 
of gyrojet rounds equal to their Agility as a Simple Action. 
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
<< MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS    75
===== PAGE 77 =====
three. The system is especially designed for those 
wicked multiple-tube rocket launchers that give 
folks nightmares when a dinky little Wasp rolls 
around a corner but has a pair of fat tubes under its 
little stub wings ready to give you a really bad day. 
They can load a set of Maker Missiles (now rock -
ets, but you know, alliteration in advertising) into 
all the tubes and not have to worry about varying 
payload needs. They can switch them out prior to 
launch or even after launch if they have enough 
range to target. A single launch can also include a 
variety of different payloads all crashing down and 
ruining someone’s party. 
Their test reports also indicate that incomplete 
transitions can result in duds, split effects, in-
creased effects, lessened effects, and unexpected 
effects. Best I saw was an attempt to swap an AV 
(Anti Vehicle) for a Concussion load that resulted 
in a ground-level blast wave that swept the feet 
out from under dummy targets for over one hun-
dred meters in every direction. Comically little ac-
tual damage, just a giant knockdown rocket. Once 
they solve a few problems, expect these to hit the 
streets, literally.
 > I’m sure they’ll hit the streets before they solve all the 
problems. Runners are great for field testing. 
> Stone
 
> I may have some experience working with these, and I 
have found that a skilled hacker can hit them in transit and 
make payload mod requests without too much trouble. 
It was pretty much the only gripe I had with these things 
during my encounter. 
> Picador 
MICROWAVE WEAPONS
I’m not exactly sure how any sane scientist went 
from thinking that something we use to reheat 
the bulk of our food could be used as a weap-
on system, but I like to imagine it involved a pet 
or something standing too close to a unit with a 
damaged shield and some shorted wiring rather 
than the scientist sticking said pet inside just to 
see what happens. That latter idea is probably 
the more likely, but I try to see the world through 
rose-colored glasses as often as possible, though 
that might just be a bloodstain on the lenses, but 
I should get to the point instead of entertaining 
you with witty banter. 
Somewhere out there—okay, probably many 
somewheres—there are corps working with micro-
wave technology to try to create a non-lethal solu-
tion for induced subject compliance. Fancy way of 
saying taking the fight out of the fighter. Judging 
by the materials I’ve gained access to—and there 
are lots of them—the corps are taking one of two 
routes, neither completely perfected yet, but both 
having great and entertaining “detrimental second-
ary effects,” in order to get to their goal of a weap-
on that neutralizes a subject without permanent 
harm or risk of critical injury. The two methods hit 
two very different ends of the spectrum, though 
microwaves fit in only a very small portion of the 
energy spectrum, namely pain and docility. Either 
they make a subject feel soooo much pain that they 
can’t continue to function, or they make them all 
docile like a ganger on a triple dose of bliss. 
Pain! Let’s talk about this first because, as we all 
well know, this is the megacorps’ preferred method of 
creating compliance in defiant subjects. They’ve got 
plenty of docility all over their workforce; why not get 
some good ol’fashioned pain for shits and giggles? 
Some might imagine that the microwave pain gun 
functions by actually using microwaves to cook the 
subject, but, last I checked, cooking someone seems 
MAKER MAGS AND MISSILES
Maker Mags are bought with a basic supply load and 
a specific set of rounds that can be produced. Once the 
maximum number of rounds has been used, the Maker Mag 
is empty and useless. They cannot be refilled yet. They are 
currently only available for weapons with the Semi-Automatic 
fire mode. Selecting the type of round requires a wireless AR 
(Simple Action) or DNI link (Free Action).
Standard Maker Mags have half the capacity of the regular 
weapon. 
Extended Maker Mags have three-quarters the capacity of 
the regular weapon.
Maker Missiles can be changed via a wireless link before 
or after launch. 
MAKER ARMS
MODEL AVAIL COST
Standard Mag 18R Base Ammo Capacity 
x 100¥
Extended Mag 18R Base Ammo Capacity 
x 150¥
Maker Missile 24F 5,000¥
Maker Grenade 18F 500¥
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
76    MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS >>
===== PAGE 132 =====
HORIZON-FLYNN DEFENSE-COM 
COMMLINK WEAPONS
Sometimes the best weapon one has is the one no 
one knows they have. Once again partnering with 
renowned bladesmith Dante Flynn, Horizon has 
recently released their Defense-Com brand of con-
cealed weapons. Designed to look like standard 
(but non-functional) commlinks, Defense-Com 
weapons come in three varieties: the Def-Com 
hold-out pistol, taser, and defensive knife. Each 
one is perfect for the person who requires protec-
tion but doesn’t want to draw attention. 
> These things can be handy. Undercover Horizon Protectors 
are fond of these. Because of the low damage profile, 
they usually load the pistol with capsule rounds filled 
with appropriate night-night juice. The taser is decent, but 
the knife is solid. I carry one. However, I suggest getting 
to know them before you use them. Nothing worse than 
grabbing the wrong ’link.
> Mika
HORIZON-FLYNN DEFENSE-COM  
COMMLINK WEAPONS: HOLD OUT PISTOL
ACC DV AP MODE AMMO AVAIL COST
5 5P — SS 2(b) 10 400
HORIZON-FLYNN DEFENSE-COM  
COMMLINK WEAPONS: TASER
ACC DV AP MODE AMMO AVAIL COST
5 6S(e) –4 SS 4(b) 10 300¥
HORIZON-FLYNN DEFENSE-COM  
COMMLINK WEAPONS: KNIFE
ACC REACH DV AP AVAIL COST
4 – (STR)P –2 10 250¥
LONE STAR’S  
REMINGTON 995 “BUZZSAW”
A variant of their classic 990 shotgun, the 995 
“Buzzsaw” has gained a reputation as being a 
simple yet reliable and rugged entry gun. Cur -
rently a favorite among Lone Star’s Shadow -
riders, the 995 has a pistol grip in place of the 
standard stock. But what makes the 995 an 
effective door breacher is the barrel-mounted 
titanium “teeth” that are jammed into a lock or 
door hinge that prevent the weapon from skip-
ping off when fired. It also features a grip han-
dle that attaches to the pump-action but goes 
over the weapon, allowing for rapid chamber -
ing and maneuvering in close quarters. Both 
these features allow for quick seating and em-
ployment of the weapon. 
> Those teeth also hurt when you jam them into someone’s 
hand, neck, or whatever. 
> Kane
REMINGTON 995 “BUZZSAW” SHOTGUN
ACC DV AP MODE RC AMMO AVAIL COST
4 11P –1 SA — 8(c) 6R 1,000¥
Standard Upgrades: Breaching teeth, foregrip, modified pump 
handle, side mount (top and bottom).
Special Rules: Breaching teeth provide +2 to accuracy when 
weapon barrel is seated against a target.
LONE STAR’S BATES-BROWN 
TACTICAL COMBAT BOOTS
Also known as “drek-kicker” boots, these specially 
designed combat boots not only protect one’s feet 
and look stylish with tactical gear, but with their 
reinforced soles and metal toes they also act as 
knucks for kicking. That’s right, with these boots, 
kick attacks are more damaging than ever. Perfect 
for kicking in doors or a perp’s guts!
> One of the most cringe-worthy things I’ve seen is a Star 
adept cop spin-kick a troll suspect in his … well you get 
the idea. Frag, that looked like it hurt! 
> Bull
BATES-BROWN TACTICAL COMBAT BOOTS
ACC REACH DV AP AVAIL COST
4 — (STR+2)P –4 10 250¥
Special Rules: +5 armor against attacks to the feet
MAERSK SHIPYARDS 
WAVECUTTER MPAC
The Wavecutter MPAC, or Maritime Patrol and 
Assault Craft, is loosely based on the PT-style 
watercraft. But other than a few design features, 
the Wavecutter and PTs have little in common. 
Designed to fulfill a wide variety of maritime 
warfare and security roles, the twenty-eight-me-
ter-long Wavecutter weighs only approximately 
twenty-five tons despite its heavily armored hull. 
The Wavecutter also features a powerful Pack -
ard-Voss V-31 Maritime engine that allows for an 
impressive surface speed and maneuverability 
profile. While the base model comes with several 
features such as a small landing ramp that opens 
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
<< OPPOSITION REPORT: CORPSEC    131
===== PAGE 133 =====
to store a semi-rigid inflatable vehicle or other 
small watercraft (up to two small craft, takes one 
Complex Action to deploy). The Wavecutter also 
has several other features that allow for extended 
operations and is a favorite of Maresk’s Marines, 
who use it extensively. 
> What you have here is a t-bird on water. Depending on the 
modifications, this thing can be a floating gunship, drone 
carrier, or a special-ops taxi. And Maersk uses them for all 
of the above. It’s one of the few times I find myself envious 
of a corp, because they’re hard, but not impossible, to get 
if you’re not cozy with Maersk. 
> Kane
MAERSK SHIPYARDS WAVECUTTER MPAC
HAND SPEED ACCEL BODY ARM PILOT SENS SEATS AVAIL COST
5 5 3 25 25 4 5 12 22F 360,000¥
Standard Equipment: Amenities (low), commlink (DR 7), ECM 4, four 
additional body modification slots, four additional weapon mount 
slots, manual control override, rigger cocoon, rigger interface, 
satellite link, sun cell, signature masking 4
Special Equipment: Small craft bay (rear).
 
MCT/WINCHESTER-HOWE 
HORNET DIRECT-FIRE  
MINI-GRENADE
For a corporation that’s famous for its Zero-Zone 
security, most weren’t surprised when MCT 
subcontracted munitions manufacturer Win-
chester-Howe to develop the Hornet mini-gre-
nade. A cross between a grenade and a rocket, 
the Hornet is launched from a grenade launcher, 
but instead of arching, it is a direct-fire, single-tar-
get weapon. Like a grenade, the Hornet can be 
programmed to detonate based on a timer or 
proximity to a target. Before impact, the Hornet 
splits into six different projectiles, which gives it 
a burst-fire-like effect. While the Hornet can be 
used in any standard grenade launcher, the tar -
geting sensors in the grenade’s head tend to mal-
function, which often prevents projectile separa-
tion and cancels the burst effect. 
WINCHESTER-HOWE HORNET DIRECT-FIRE MINI-GRENADE
DV AP BLAST AVAIL COST
12P –2 Special 16F 400¥
Special Rules: During normal operations, the Hornet is considered 
to be a six-round burst fire weapon; normal rules apply. On a glitch 
when firing, the Hornet does not separate. It will still do base DV –2, 
but will lose its AP . 
RENRAKU RED  
SAMURAI KATANA
The ultimate badge of honor and service among 
Renraku’s Elite Red Samurai, these blades works 
of art as much as functional weapons, forged with 
a blend of modern and ancient techniques. Leg-
end says that if a Red Samurai draws their blade, 
it must taste blood or it will turn on its owner. 
Whether this is true or not remains to be seen, but 
when a Red Samurai draws their blade, someone 
usually dies. A Red Samurai would rather die than 
give up their blade willingly. Blades of honorably 
fallen or passed Samurai are considered sacred 
items. 
> And the Reds take this very seriously. Don’t get any 
ideas about stealing one, unless you want the entire Red 
Samurai corps after you. I’m not kidding. 
> Thorn
RENRAKU RED SAMURAI KATANA
ACC REACH DV AP AVAIL COST
6 1 (STR+3)P –4 NA NA
RENRAKU/INGRAM  
SUPERMACH 200
A weapon design subcontracted through the In-
gram weapons corporation, the Supermach 200 is 
a favorite among Najima (Renraku’s security sub-
sidiary) and the Blue Samurai. An update of the 
popular Supermach 100, the 200 is designed to 
be light, compact, and hold a substantial ammo 
capacity. But in order to accomplish all this, In-
gram was forced to create a special proprietary 
ammo type that can only be used in this weapon. 
The result was a round that lacked the raw damage 
profile of most weapons of similar caliber, but to 
compensate it had one of the best armor-penetra-
tion profiles without having to use APDS ammo. 
Despite the 200’s supposed flaws, Renraku is 
more than satisfied with the weapon, siting the 
low potential for blow-through, and has contract-
ed for several thousand over the next few years. 
INGRAM SUPERMACH 2000 SMG
ACC DV AP MODE RC AMMO AVAIL COST
6 5P –6 BF/FA –2 40(c) 18F 5,000¥
Standard Upgrades: Internal smartgun system, shock pad
Special Rules: Because of its specialized design, this weapon can 
only take custom ammo. For gameplay, treat price as standard ammo 
but with Availability of 16F.
>> STREET LETHAL  <<
132    OPPOSITION REPORT: CORPSEC >>