
===== streetlethal.pdf PDF 51 =====
POSTED BY: HARD EXIT
So we’ve covered the new (and new-ish) weap-
ons that are more broadly available, but that’s 
not the true bleeding edge of combat technolo-
gy. For that, you have to dive into the megacor-
porate labs and see the ideas and concepts 
they’re testing. Some of these ideas will never 
make it to mass production—they may not be 
feasible to produce in large numbers, or they just 
plain may not work. But this is what the corps 
are working on, so you should know so you can 
keep up with what might be coming at you in the 
near future—and start building your wish list for 
future birthdays.
 
ARES ARMS DPC-002A 
“SLAM DANCER”
Always on the lookout for a new gun to sell, Ares 
Arms has been experimenting with a concept 
they call a “directional particle cannon” on be-
half of Ares Space. The initial concept was not a 
weapon at all, but a device to assist manned and 
unmanned spacefaring vessels travel through 
space. Based on a concept from an old flat-vid 
science-fiction franchise, the idea was to use a 
low-powered energy beam to deflect small and 
microscopic debris (that could still severely dam-
age a vessel) safely away from the intended flight 
path. Plans to develop the device for its initial pur-
pose ended in 2065 when Ares Arms engineers 
realized its potential use as an energy-based ve-
hicle weapon.
>	
If they thought they could make nuyen from it, Ares would 
try to develop a combat potato gun.
>	
Netcat
Ares Arms R&D started work on the initial con-
cept in 2053, and according to secondhand ac-
counts, significant progress had been made. The 
project, known as Galaxy Navigator, went from 
proof-of-concept to preliminary working proto-
type. Ares Arms changed gears and re-named 
the project Slam Dancer, but most of the data and 
specs on it and Galaxy Navigator were lost in the 
Second Matrix Crash of 2064. Left with a proto-
type device and no data on how exactly it oper-
ates, Ares engineers did the smart thing (for once) 
and spent the next few years reverse-engineering 
and re-testing it. 
>	
Another group of Ares engineers also re-started the 
Galaxy Navigator project, running it parallel with Slam 
Dancer. With the two devices operating on the same basic 
concept, the idea was to kill two birds with one stone. 
Ironically, Galaxy Navigator progressed much faster and 
its developments kept Slam Dancer afloat despite a series 
of mishaps and constant budget overruns. While Slam 
Dancer is still struggling, Ares Space already has plans to 
ship the first run of Navigator units to Ares Space and the 
Space Rescue Service by end of fiscal year 2083. 
>	
Orbital DK 
After nearly a decade of trial and error (mostly 
error), Ares Arms was finally able to complete six 
(semi) reliable prototype devices in 2073. Classi-
fied as the DPC-001, test units one through four 
were shipped to Ares’ Antarctic Base for further 
testing, while units five and six were placed in a 
secure Ares vault at corporate HQ in Detroit. These 
first units were large, weighing over 450 kilos and 
were six meters long and consisted of an emitter 
unit and power supply. These units could only be 
transported by large vehicles. 
Late last year, after years of testing and refine-
ment, Ares Arms began field testing a new refined 
and scaled-down unit known as the DPC-002A. 
The 002A is still large by weapon standards but 
can be mounted on heavy vehicles such as battle 
tanks—which may be what the current device is 
designed for.
STREET LETHAL
MILITARY AND
FUTURE WEAPONS
50    MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS >>

===== streetlethal.pdf PDF 52 =====
>	
I recently heard that Ares Arms is looking to develop a 
new line of armored vehicles and air-defense systems 
based around this weapon. What intrigues me is how fast 
Ares Arms went from a large, clunky prototype to a much 
more streamlined unit in a relatively short period of time 
for a project like this. Cost cutting, cutting corners, or does 
someone really want these in the field?
>	
Clockwork
>	
Yeah, but does the damn thing work?
>	
Balladeer
>	
According various sources, all tests have been listed as 
mixed. But maybe the rapid development has something 
to do with the Slam Dancers and their crews who have 
been seen around the Kilimanjaro Mass Driver. Has 
anyone heard from Sticks lately? I have some Ares-related 
inquiries for him.
>	
Red Anya
>	
Negative, Anya. Nothing substantial recently.
>	
Glitch
>	
Contact of mine says initial field tests are proving … 
challenging. While the test units performed well under 
low-power tests, they tended to burn out the focusing 
emitters at higher power, causing the containment beam 
to fail and the charged particles to act unpredictably. Not 
something you want to be near when things go bad. 
>	
Cosmo
>	
Yeah, but this is the new Ares, where fifty percent reliability 
is considered a success.
>	
Slamm-0!
 
Both the 001 and the 002A operate on the prin-
ciple of supercharging ambient particles in a par-
ticular area and then projecting or focusing said 
particles in the desired direction. The first part of 
this process involves activating a quantum-mag-
netic confinement beam. This beam is specifically 
designed to contain, focus, and aim the charged 
particles into the desired direction. The second 
part of this process is achieved by a Zero-Point 
Energy Emitter that excites and supercharges the 
targeted particles, sending them into a high kinet-
ic energy state. This creates what engineers have 
dubbed “kinetic lighting.” Once the particles are 
charged, they travel away from the emitter and 
along the confinement beam toward the target. 
After the particles have impacted with the tar-
get, the confinement beam is disengaged, which 
is usually accompanied by a loud and distinctive 
auditory “crack-boom.” The time from weapon ac-
tivation to impact on target is usually 1.3 seconds. 
>	
Interesting. The effects seem similar to a NeoNET device 
that was reportedly being used in Boston during the 
quarantine. Wonder if Ares somehow got ahold of the 
specs from NeoNET … or maybe the other way around. 
>	
Rigger X
To increase the unit’s versatility in the field, the 
containment beam can be set to narrow disper-
sion for a concentrated attack against a single tar-
get, or wide dispersion to engage multiple targets. 
However, the wider the dispersion, the weaker the 
attack. With current ammunition capacitors, the 
Slam Dancer can fire between five to ten times be-
fore recharging, depending on the weapon’s focus 
settings. 
>	
So basically this is a ghost-damned energy shotgun for 
tanks? Fraggin’ A! When can I get one that’s at least troll-
sized?
>	
Beaker
>	
Or an energy flak gun, take your pick.
>	
Hard Exit
>	
If the data I have regarding the Navigator units, which are 
by all accounts scaled-down, low-powered versions of the 
Slam Dancer, the energy output needed to make these 
<< MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS    51

===== streetlethal.pdf PDF 53 =====
things a viable weapon is enormous. Good luck carrying a 
large enough capacitor with you to make it work, even for 
someone of your large stature, Beak. 
>	
Orbital DK
>	
For what this thing is capable of as a potential anti-
aircraft/weapon platform, I wouldn’t be surprised to see it 
mounted on naval vessels in the near future. If it works.
>	
Sounder
If current field testing proves to be successful, 
Ares Arms hopes to begin wide-scale deployment 
to their military and para-military forces by 2088, 
with sales to preferred customers in 2089.
ARES ARMS DPC-002A (HEAVY VEHICLE MOUNTED WEAPON)
ACC
DV
AP
MODE
RC
AMMO
COST
AVAIL
4
20P*
—
SS
—
10 (charges)**
N/A
N/A
Standard Equipment: Smartgun targeting system
*Damage: Narrow beam DV: adjust DV by –5 for medium beam, 
–10 for wide beam. Uses Choke rules, page 180-181 SR5.
**Charges: After all charges used, weapon requires six stan-
dard hours to re-charge.
AZTECHNOLOGY-DASSAULT 
HALCÓN DE SANGRE/
BLOOD HAWK MK I
In 2075, Aztechnology and Dassault Aviation 
stunned the attendees at the Paris Air Show and 
the aviation community as a whole with the un-
veiling of their new Blood Hawk Mk I superiority 
fighter and Mk II fighter-bomber. Witnesses at 
the event reported seeing a “sleek aircraft that 
seemed to morph and shift in mid-flight” and that 
they “had never seen such maneuverability in a 
manned aircraft before.” The surprise unveiling 
at Paris was a PR bulls-eye for Aztechnology and 
Dassault. Despite the Blood Hawk being years 
away from its first full production run, it’s been 
reported that current back-orders may take the 
next twenty years to fill.  
>	
And it almost caused an international incident. Security and 
secrecy was so tight about the Blood Hawks that the event 
coordinators and local governments were completely in 
the dark. So when a totally new aircraft comes screaming 
in at only 460 meters, completely evading all local radar 
and aerial sensors and then coming to a dead stop (yeah, 
that’s right) above the crowd with weapons bays open, a 
lot of people needed to change their shorts.
>	
Sunshine
>	
Yes, but lately it’s hard to stay mad at Aztechnology. Didn’t 
you know they’re fragging heroes? And those were just 
dummy munitions after all, so no big deal. Besides, they 
also know the exact palms to grease. 
>	
Pyramid Watcher
For the past two decades, there were rumors 
of Aztechnology experimenting with new, cut-
ting-edge aerospace technologies. Numerous 
sightings of unidentified, high-performance air-
craft along the Aztlan/CAS border continued to 
bolster such rumors, and they gained additional 
credence during the Az-Am War, when Aztechnol-
ogy was rumored to be heavily investing in what 
is generally referred to as “anti-dragon weapons.”
During a press conference after the unveil-
ing in Paris, Dassault gave a history lesson about 
their new product. According to their official 
statements and releases, the Blood Hawk will be 
the first ninth-generation fighter aircraft. They’re 
also the production models of the Ala de Sangre 
(or Blood Wing) prototype test-bed aircraft first 
conceived in 2060 and built in the early 2065. 
Once a series of tests and evaluations are com-
pleted, Dassault said that the first Blood Hawks 
are scheduled to enter service with their respec-
tive air forces by spring of 2084. 
>	
Interesting. They’re trying to make it seem like this is a 
normal developmental cycle. In actuality, the original 
Blood Wing was initially part of Aztechnology’s anti-
A NOTE ON PURCHASING 
AND USING FUTURE WEAPONS
The vast majority of weapons and ammo in this chapter 
do not have a listed cost or availability, simply because they 
are not available for purchase, even if you have a great 
black-market connection. For the most part, they have not 
been manufactured in high enough numbers for anyone to be 
selling them (though there are a few exceptions). The items in 
this chapter potentially carry a lot of power, so gamemasters 
should be careful about letting players obtain and use them 
with any degree of reliability. The weapons may be subject to 
frequent breakdowns, or other runners might be anxious to 
steal them away from the players. Use the weapons to make 
fun games and interesting plot twists, not to give the players 
powers no shadowrunner should possess for long.
>> STREET LETHAL <<
52    MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS >>

===== streetlethal.pdf PDF 56 =====
>	
Yeah, it sent a shockwave through the runner community 
as well. Something like this would be a game changer, 
especially for riggers and deckers. Not sure how the 
technomancers would fare. 
>	
Bull
>	
I … honestly don’t know. But it’s MCT, so I’m instantly 
worried and on my guard. 
>	
Netcat
>	
I’m definitely interested now. 
>	
Clockwork
>	
Before anyone starts something, I’m stopping it now. 
Only warning. Keep it professional. 
>	
Glitch
Claiming that the system was in its final phases 
of testing, MCT showcased a wide variety of de-
livery systems ranging from high-powered, ve-
hicle-mounted emitters to small, grenade-sized 
“quick burst” weaponry. MCT was short on details, 
specifically how the system worked, claiming it 
was proprietary information. They said, though, 
that the DSP system is a combination static-blast 
that weakens the target and a subsequent da-
ta-spike that specifically targets a device or sys-
tem through its wireless connection.   
>	
Damn, looks like I’m going to have to start stocking up on 
lower-tech weaponry again. 
>	
Red Anya
>	
These are recently acquired specs for the DSP system. I’m 
not doing this for some altruistic principle, but because it 
suits my purposes against another. <link>
>	
Rigger X
>	
Oh frag, Netcat is gonna …
>	
Pistons
>	
MOTHERFRAGGERS!!!! 
I’M 
GONNA 
<connection 
terminated, user: Netcat blocked>
>	
Netcat
>	
Just until you calm down. I don’t need you accidentally 
damaging JackPoint in a blind rage. See me after. 
>	
Glitch
>	
Dude, I’m shaking. They’re using some kind of corrupted 
sprite to power this. This is not good. How are they making 
this work? 
>	
Slamm-0! 
>	
Heh. Time to buy stock in MCT. *grin*
>	
Clockwork
DSP GRENADE
DV
AP
BLAST
COST
AVAIL
10(special)*
—
5m
N/A
N/A
*Damage: To damage object/target, weapon’s net hits must by-
pass target’s threshold (p. 295, SR5). Number of net hits is equal to 
the net hits over the initial DV.
DSP “STATIC GUN” (VEHICLE MOUNTED WEAPON)
ACC
DV
AP
MODE
RC
AMMO
COST AVAIL
3
15 
(special*)
—
SS
—
10** 
N/A
N/A
Standard Equipment: Smartgun targeting system
*Damage: To damage object/target, weapon’s net hits must by-
pass target’s threshold (p. 295, SR5). Number of net hits is equal to 
the net hits over the initial DV.
**Charges: After all charges used, requires new custom am-
munition to be created per sprite compiling rules. 
VULCAN SYSTEMS “HOT-
DROP” RAPID-EGRESS 
JETPACK SYSTEM
“When you need to get into the heat of battle, accept 
no substitutes!” —Vulcan Systems Matrix ad, 2078.
To say the market for mil-spec weaponry and 
equipment is cutthroat is one of the great under-
statements of the Sixth World. In such a saturat-
ed market, sometimes one has to take extreme 
chances with an extreme concept in order to stand 
out against the competition. And Vulcan Systems 
is poised to do just that with their new Hot-Drop 
personal jetpack system. 
>	
Let me see … basically make myself nothing more than a 
flying target. Nope, pass.
>	
Clockwork
For years, this subsidiary of Saeder-Krupp was 
another solid but unremarkable performer in the 
megacorporation’s portfolio. Their drones were 
basic stuff. They were solid yet unremarkable and 
sold well enough that the S-K higher-ups pretty 
much forgot about them. That was until Lofwyr 
himself needed material for his little war against 
his brother Alamais. Suddenly every S-K subsidi-
ary was, for the lack of a better term, drafted into 
the war effort. 
>> STREET LETHAL <<
<< MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS    55

===== streetlethal.pdf PDF 60 =====
GRAVITY DRIVE
This system is designed for use on a variety of 
classes of vehicles. Reports indicate it was initial-
ly designed for large ships, like, say, a starship, 
but this tech, and tons of their other tech, has got-
ten smaller and smaller. Evo apparently has oper-
ational models all across that size spectrum, each 
with their own individual collection of problems 
that need solving. The models don’t have cool 
names by themselves, but Evo’s project names 
will work to make this more interesting to read. 
STAR FERRY
This is where it all started. These are the specs for 
the actual ship the Monads are prepping/have 
prepped (looks like the latter from the reports, but 
it’s possible they’re conning all of us) for their trip 
out of our hair. This thing is huge, but it’s definitely 
not designed for huge numbers of conscious pas-
sengers. The drive system is solely space-based, 
with insufficient power supplies to work while 
inside a gravity field greater than 0.5 Earth Stan-
dard. Internal specs weren’t entirely in this file we 
got. Those focused primarily on the grav drive, 
along with lists of consumption requirements for 
the major systems on the ship, including stasis 
support, life support, deflection systems, weap-
ons array, and long-range scanning. I’m sure there 
are more systems on the ship, but they only listed 
power requirements for these. If I read the basic 
design plan correctly, the ship is a series of some-
what modular cubes and spheres. 
>	
Nice. I’ve always wanted the specs to build my own 
spaceship. All joking aside, seeing the progress that has 
actually been made on this project makes me wonder 
why the Monads are still around. Anyone got an update 
on their master plan?
>	
/dev/grrl
>	
Somewhat bothered by the efforts of the megas, though 
claims at initial launch are circulating. They’ve decided all 
these AIs uploaded into biological supercomputers are 
nice to have around. And by that, I mean use and abuse 
until they’re no longer needed or look like their getting 
long in the tooth.
>	
Plan 9
>	
The infection rates have dropped significantly in the past 
year. I’m not sure if it’s an intentional effect, but according 
to sources I’m investigating it’s a mixed bag. Sounds like it 
takes extra effort to produce the nanite quantities needed 
for passing it on, and most of the current Monads are busy 
using all the little bugs they have left to stay out of trouble. 
>	
Butch
>	
This isn’t just big for the Monads. This kind of tech could 
open up our solar system as a vast wealth of resources. 
These ships could easily be re-outfitted to act as cargo 
haulers and mining ships. They’d be far more efficient 
than anything anyone else has up there right now. If Evo 
can get this tech rolling, expect them to hit a nice growth 
period. They’ll also be targeted at just as high of a rate, but 
with this kind of tech edge, they can probably hold off all 
comers for a while.
>	
Turbo Bunny
 
>	
Until the Corp Court issues the Omega order on them for 
getting too far ahead of the crowd. Then it’s the other nine 
coming after them and they will fall, losing sole access to 
all the proprietary tech along the way.
>	
Orbital DK
BORDER JOCKEY
This is designed to move resources from the Star 
Ferry to the surface. This model is the size of a 
luxury yacht. It doesn’t have the comfortable ac-
commodations of its comparison craft, but that’s 
not its purpose. It uses a thick triangle design, 
similar to some modern zeppelins. The design 
is three-quarters cargo hold, with the remaining 
quarter containing the drive systems, commu-
nications, navigation, control room, and a twen-
ty-person passenger cabin. More passengers can 
be loaded into special storage crates that load 
into the cargo area for migrations, according to 
the schematics. Testing for the craft has been 
STAR FERRY
No stats for this beast. It’s not intended to be flown but to 
act as a possible setting for a very strange Shadowrun game. 
A few options to plant a game here include a group of Monads, 
or recovered Monads, who awaken on board the ship and 
need to figure out where they are and what is going on. Maybe 
something’s wrong with the ship, or maybe they just need to 
escape its automated security systems. The players could 
also be a team of runners who are all kidnapped to be used as 
Monad hosts at their destination but awake from failed stasis 
pods early in the process, possibly before departure, or shortly 
after—or years later, and you’ve got your own new setting.
>> STREET LETHAL <<
<< MILITARY AND FUTURE WEAPONS    59
