
===== completetrog.pdf PDF 144 =====
Though cyber replacements are commonly 
available, Sounder wears an eyepatch when the 
mood suits her. When asked, she says it helps with 
the nautical feel of her smuggling operation. 
>	
She has a cybereye, and she only wears the eyepatch 
when she’s trying to play the pirate. Or just feels like 
looking cool.
>	
Turbo Bunny
Despite her obvious affinity with pirates, she 
doesn’t perform piracy on the shipping in the 
Seattle area. Rather, she quietly moves her cus-
tomers’ goods up and down the Pacific coast. 
Despite the disagreement with the one Yakuza 
boss, she continues to move guns for them into 
and out of Seattle. She has numerous contacts in 
the San Francisco area of the California Free State 
and even has a couple of ships registered in the 
CFS. She has a lot of connections in the Seattle 
area and is an enduring figure in the club scene, 
though she favors the dark and moody spots 
over the hot and trendy ones. If you’re going to 
be one of the top smugglers in Seattle, you need 
to be able to make your way into Tír Tairngire, 
so Sounder has a few ways in. Not easy ones, 
though, because nothing about the Tír is easy. 
That means, of course, that it’ll cost you more to 
smuggle things across that border.
I was going to stop with the well-known people 
there and move on to some up-and-comers, but it 
was suggested I should include myself. So read on!
SOUNDER
FEMALE ORK
SR5 STATS
B
A
R
S
W
L
I
C
ESS
EDG
7 (8)
3
6 (9)
4
4
4
3
5
1.2
5
Initiative
9(12) + 1D6
Condition Monitor
12/10
Limits
Physical 7(9), Mental 5, Social 6
Armor
13
Active Skills
Blades 8, Con 8, Demolitions 4 ,Disguise 4, 
ElectronicsWarfare 6, Etiquette 8, Gunnery 7, 
Longarms 9, Nautical Mechanic 8, Navigation 9, 
Palming 6, Perception 7, Pilot Aircraft 4, Pilot Ground 
Craft 7, Pilot Watercraft 10, Sneaking 5, Survival 4, 
Throwing Weapons 5, Unarmed Combat 7
Knowledge Skills
Puget Sound (area) 7, Ocean Currents 6, Organized 
Crime 6, Northwest Yakuza Hierarchy, 7  Pacific 
Northwest 4, Smuggling Routes 7
Languages
English N, Japanese 6 (Cityspeak +2), Or’zet 5
Qualities
Distinctive Style (eye patch), High Pain Threshold 2, 
Quick Healer, Toughness
Augmentations
Bone lacing (plastic), control rig 3 (betaware), 
reaction enhancers 3, simrig, smartlink, voice 
modulator
Gear
Hermes Ikon, medkit (Rating 6), nautical mechanic 
shop
Vehicles
Ares Venture (Aircraft, Handl 5, Speed 7, Accel 4, Bod 
16, Armor 14, Pilot 4, Sensor 4, Seats 6)
Aztech Profit (Watercraft, Handl 2, Speed 2, Accel 1, 
Bod 14, Armor 22, Pilot 3, Sensor 2, Seats 10)
Echo Motors Metaway (Groundcraft, Handl 4/2, Speed 
4, Accel 1, Body 10, Armor 4, Pilot 1, Sensor 2, 
Seats 1)
Harley-Davidson Nightmare (Groundcraft, Handl 4/3, 
Speed 5, Accel 2, Body 8, Armor 8, Pilot 2, Sensor 
3, Seats 2)
MCT-Nissan Roto-Drone (Medium Drone, Handl 4, 
Speed 4, Accel 2, Bod 4, Armor 4, Pilot 3, Sensor 3)
Proteus A.G. “Krake” (Small Drone, Speed 3, Accel 4, 
Body 2, Armor 2, Pilot 4, Sensor 3, w/ 4 micro-
torpedoes [chemical, DV 6P, AP –4, 1m radius, w/ 
acid damage])
Weapons
Enfield AS-7 [shotgun, Acc 4(5), DV 11S(e), AP –1, SA/
BF, RC —, 24(d), w/stick and shock ammo]
Survival knife [Knife, Acc 5, Reach 0, DV 7P, AP –1,]
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
<< TROG RUNNERS    143

===== completetrog.pdf PDF 145 =====
SOUNDER
FEMALE ORK
SR: ANARCHY STATS
S
A
W
L
C
EDG
4
3
4
4
5
5
Condition 
Monitor
10/10
Armor
9
Skills
Pilot (Ground) 3 + A, Pilot (Other) 5 + A, Con 4 + C, 
Firearms 3 + A, Negotiation 4 + C, Organized Crime (K)
Shadow Amps
Essence 3
Control Rig 3 (Cyberware. Control vehicle in VR, +1 die to 
vehicle actions, may reroll 3 dice, –2 Essence)
Smartlink (Cyberware. +1 die to firearms or heavy 
weapons. –1 Essence)
Qualities
Distinctive style (eye patch), Gearhead, Home Ground 
(Puget Sound)
Gear
Ares Venture (A 12, D 10), Aztech Profit (A 18, D 12), Echo 
Motors Metaway (A 3, D 8), Harley-Davidson Nightmare 
(A 6, D 6), Hermes Ikon, MCT-Nissan Roto-Drone (A 3, D 
3), Mechanic toolkit, medkit, Proteus A.G. “Krake” (A 2, D 
2), Survival kit
Weapons
Enfield AS-7 shotgun [DV 9P, Close OK, Near –2, Far —, 
at Close range can take -2 dice pool penalty to attack 
two targets]
Knife [DV 3P, Close OK, Near —, Far —]
SUNSHINE
I was born the second son of two mid-level execu-
tives of Novatech in Denver in 2052. It was a different 
time and town then. I wasn’t born with a silver spoon 
in my tusks, but I wasn’t born into poverty, either. My 
father was a rising star who broke through a lot of bar-
riers that had been in place up until then. I learned a 
lot from my father; for example, he taught me about 
office politics and how important reading people is. 
He didn’t always know I was listening—or even that I 
was there—when I absorbed some of these lessons. 
For example, once when I was five, I was hiding in the 
closet and overheard his negotiations with his new 
boss. As a mid-level exec, he was generally supposed 
to act grateful for having a job that was not complete-
ly horrible, and senior executives typically expected 
a lot of sucking up. But my father watched his boss 
carefully and saw that if he appeared as a total door-
mat, he would quickly lose any chance at gaining 
the woman’s respect. So he gently pushed back on 
an item or two, staying polite but letting her know he 
wasn’t just rolling over on everything. She became 
more engaged in the conversation as it went on, be-
cause she enjoyed exchanging ideas more than she 
would have liked giving orders. He read her correctly 
and met her on a level she would respond to. 
That didn’t mean he had found a permanent 
home. In 2058, he jumped ship for greener pas-
tures at Erika, or so he thought. 
Part of my ongoing education was that I learned 
that the megacorps are ruthless, and the people are 
just cogs in the machine. Everything is about the 
value you can currently offer—past contributions 
aren’t worth a thing. My mother was a Matrix spe-
cialist who lost her life during Crash 2.0. The cor-
poration gave my dad two days off and their con-
dolences. It wasn’t long after that when Novatech, 
Erika, and Transys Neuronet merged to form Neo-
NET. Suddenly, my father was working alongside 
people he’d left behind when he went to Erika. They 
all said there were no hard feelings, but I’d learned 
enough by then to know it wasn’t true. My older 
brother followed in my father’s footsteps and joined 
NeoNET. I was top of my class, and everyone ex-
pected I would soon be joining them as well. 
Instead, I walked away and joined the shadows 
as a deep-cover operative. I got out on time—my 
father was unceremoniously fired a year after my 
graduation, his people-skills no match for the of-
fice powers aligned against him. On the outside, 
I work the long con, finding out the dirt and in-
formation the corporations or companies want 
to keep hidden, then making sure those secrets 
come to light. FastJack saw the value of what I was 
doing and invited me here. Simple enough. 
Most recently, I’ve been working deep cover in-
side Horizon in Los Angeles. You saw some of what 
I learned back in the Twilight Horizon download, but I 
decided there was more to learn, so I continued find-
ing ways to work with the corp, especially as they 
worked to evolve the new version of the Consensus.
>	
Don’t tease us—what have you found out?
>	
Cosmo
>	
I don’t want to detract from the main subject here, but 
the main issue is figuring out when crowds are wise 
and when they’re not. Remember that while we may 
curse the corps until our faces turn blue, the Shiawase 
decision and other such matters never had a chance to be 
overturned because there wasn’t a popular movement to 
change them until it was far too late. Crowds didn’t have 
the wisdom to shoot that down as soon as they needed 
to, simply because crowds didn’t have the information 
they needed to evaluate the situation properly. So that’s 
what Consensus 2.0 is working on; not just taking the 
temperature of Horizon employees to help keep the corp 
on a steady path, but providing useful information and 
weighting responses based on the expected expertise of 
the responders. There is also a question about how quickly 
the Consensus can affect real-time decision making, and 
that’s still the subject of many heated discussions.
>	
Sunshine
So that’s my bio. What about my orkness? How 
>> THE COMPLETE TROG <<
144    TROG RUNNERS >>
