\n\n======== PDF 122 ========\n\nas them leaving the industry, far from it, but it’s just that 
their focus has changed for some strange reason.
>	
<cough> Deus <cough>
>	
/dev/grrl
With the strength of both GridGuide™  and now 
HarborGuide™ in their pocket, Renraku’s new angle 
is SkyGuide™, a program intended to control flying 
drones but not airplanes. Turns out that those who went 
through both the second crash and the outbreak of tech-
nomancers afterward are a tad nervous about remov-
ing control from pilots. SkyGuide is intended to control 
drone traffic in an urban environment, automatically 
redirecting them from air traffic and turning them from 
restricted airspace, also providing information to law 
enforcement should one be brought down through van-
dalism (or, of course, used in a crime). By casting a wide 
wireless net over a ’plex, they can ensure a reduction in 
accidents, destruction, and collisions. 
>	
Huh. A net in the sky? Wonder why they didn’t go with the 
obvious name?
>	
Turbo Bunny
ARES MACROTECHNOLOGY
Ares is actually the tops in one subset of the industry: 
military drones. Flying drones that silently unleash tar-
geted mini-missiles, self-guided missiles, and support 
weapon platforms are obvious, but also noncombat 
support, like the Mule equipment transport drone or 
a law-enforcement drone for the bomb disposal team. 
It used to be called the military-industrial complex, but 
these days, it’s just “Ares.”
>	
You’re selling them short, Clockwork. Ares is known 
for firepower, but they made their name in aerospace. 
They’re the leading producers of all manner of aero and 
space assets, from atmospheric sensor drones to spy sats 
to deep-space repair robots. Not really covered in your 
report, but it should be remembered.
>	
Orbital Bandit
SONY
The only AA-rated corporation that can play at this 
level is Sony. For over a century, they’ve been at the 
cutting edge of robots, keeping a high level of tech-
nological expertise even if they don’t match the raw 
industrial production of the bigger boys. Every year, 
they roll out an astounding breakthrough in artificial 
intelligence, only for Renraku to top them the next 
year. Mitsuhama’s “glass jaw” in terms of consumer 
robotics is due to Sony and Renraku dominating the 
market, and no one can rival them in the field of med-
ical robotics. 
>	
The advanced R&D Sony does is later sold to the other 
players (MCT, Ares, and so on) a couple of years after 
they’ve invented it, in a sense operating as a subsidized 
research lab for the other robot masters. Doesn’t keep 
the other megas from blocking them from triple-A status, 
mind you, but it keeps them from being preyed on quite 
so much.
>	
Glitch
>	
Huh. That’s pretty wily of ‘em!
>	
Slamm-0!
THE WORTHY COGS
Technically second-tier corps in the market (but don’t 
say that to any of their executives’ faces!), the Cogs 
have all found a place to make a profit while looking to 
advance one step higher. Each has their own special-
ized niche or a broad diversity that can’t match sales 
with the big guns, but they’re always hungry for more.
AZTECHNOLOGY
While the Azzies have, as always, been happy to steal 
technology, file off the serial numbers, then re-market 
it as their own at a lower cost (and much lower quality), 
the past few years have seen a turnaround that makes 
them an actual consideration. They’ve always had 
knockoff Ares drones on hand, but the war with Sirrurg 
resulted in some bottomless R&D budgets and risk-tak-
ing of the sort that tends to bear fruit. With “Dragon-
Slaying” miltech having gone nova-hot, they’re seeing 
a market hungry for their weaponized drones. Beyond 
this, they’ve long had a significant presence in the field 
of consumer drones, and the marketing push for “Juan” 
is creating record sales. If they can keep this up for a 
decade, or if Ares keeps falling, they could move up.
>	
While the Azzies are selling a lot of combat drones, they 
don’t use them anywhere north of Monterrey; flying 
death machines are all well and good for blowing away 
Awakened critters and conscripted peasants, but they’re 
not high-quality enough to face CAS electronic-warfare 
specialists, let alone Pueblo.
>	
Kane
EVO
Traditionally third in the military side, behind Ares and 
MCT, Evo continues to invest in both military and secu-
rity drones, as well as large-scale industrial technology. 
The one area that they continue to lead is submersible 
drones, focusing on the industrial and exploratory rath-
er than the artistic like Sony. Of particular note is that 
Evo drones are notorious for being clunky but borderline 
indestructible, reflecting the Russian technological her-
itage that they now stamp on so many of their goods. 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<    121
\n\n======== PDF 123 ========\n\n>	
And, again, they have a huge space focus via CosMos. 
Honestly, Clockwork, the world doesn’t end with the 
atmosphere.
>	
Orbital Bandit
>	
You don’t see them in North America often, but  Yamatetsu 
makes slick drones for the Asian market.
>	
Sunshine
SAEDER-KRUPP
An odd duck, S-K should be scrapping hand-to-hand 
(or, well, claw) with MCT in this field, but they’ve never 
seemed too interested. They have the technology, the 
computer expertise, and the industrial demand—hell, 
they already have ludicrously large machines like the 
Bagger 318, and when they decide to create a high-end 
pilot program, it’s a thing of perfection. But Lofwyr just 
never seems to care, so the drones are rare, if excellent.
>	
I asked a source about this. Their thought is that “Playing 
with dolls is for children. Golden Snout was born too old 
for that.” As always, take with a grain of salt.
>	
Frosty
SHIAWASE
With Mitsuhama, Renraku, Sony, and Evo (formerly Yama-
tetsu) all operating out of Japan, you wouldn’t think that 
Shiawase would find a niche, and yet here they are. They 
have an investment in “drone homes,” living quarters that 
network with a central administrator to keep lights, sounds, 
and supplies at optimal levels, but their real money is sunk 
into agricultural robots and in medical telepresence. The 
quiet war between them and Sony in senior-care robotics 
is vicious, and they recently leveled a shot across the bow 
of Horizon, letting them know in no uncertain terms that 
they shouldn’t consider the market of selling agricultural 
support to the NAN to be an open field.
>	
That was an odd one, as Horizon only recently entered 
the agricultural market via the Wind River Corporation. 
They’re using Renraku models, with their own drone 
production being cinematic in focus. Wonder if there’s 
more to this?
>	
Sunshine
>	
There’s always more. You, of all people, should know that.
>	
Icarus
DRONE 
MODIFICATION
While every rigger mods their cars, not many do many 
mods with their drones other than strap guns onto 
them. In part this is due to the compact design leaving 
little space, but surprisingly few riggers even consider 
that they can make mods in the first place. Vehicles are 
investments while drones are “toys,” and thus, dispos-
able. Time to think again.
These rules provide detailed options for drones and 
can be used as an optional rules system for adding mod-
ifications to them. Players who do not want to use a sep-
arate system can use the rules provided in the Building 
the Perfect Beast chapter (p. 150).
THE BASICS
Drones have a much more limited space to work with 
than ordinary vehicles. Every drone is given a number 
of Mod Points equal to their Body. These Mod Points 
work vaguely like Essence, a reserve of points that is 
gone once they’re all used up, meaning no further mod-
ifications are possible unless you first rip something out. 
Some drones have some, or all, of their Mod Points al-
ready spent in order to carry advanced equipment. Due 
to this, a new indicator has been added to the drone 
attributes that shows how many points are available 
for a new drone of that make, shown thusly: Body X(Y), 
where X is the actual Body rating of the drone while (Y) 
is how many points are available. In many cases, this is 
the same number, but not always. Drones from other 
SR5 supplements have been added to the master chart 
with this taken into account. Several older drones have 
had their stats adjusted to fit the rules presented in this 
book. This new statline replaces the original details for 
games using Rigger 5.0, otherwise the older information 
remains valid. 
ADDING UPGRADES
Adding an upgrade is easy enough: Check to see if 
you have enough Mod Points available, find someone 
to do the work (this can be yourself, of course), and 
pay the fee. Once it’s installed, you’re good to go. 
As an added bonus, all drones have a bit of wiggle 
room for expansion, be it more memory and more 
advanced software installs for the Pilot program, a 
better grade of engine component for speed, and so 
on. This means that any drone may have an attribute 
increased from the base by 1 (or 3 for Armor) with-
out expending any Mod Points. Increasing an attri-
bute further than that requires at least a partial re-
build, and the expenditure of Mod Points equal to the 
increase minus 1. This means a +2 Speed increase 
costs 1 Mod point, while +4 Speed would cost 3, and 
so on. The only attribute that can never be increased 
is Body; this is the inherent frame of the drone, and if 
you want it bigger, you should just buy a larger mod-
el. Adding one attribute point requires an appropri-
ate toolkit, while more extensive upgrades require an 
appropriate shop. 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
122    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<
\n\n======== PDF 124 ========\n\nENDURING DOWNGRADES
Drones may also be given Downgrades, worsening an 
aspect of the machine by using inferior parts. The ad-
vantage to this is that you could trade off a feature that 
you don’t care for as much in order to free up space for 
what you need. In a car, this would be ripping out seats 
to make a racing vehicle faster, while in a drone this can 
be removing sensors, going with a smaller and simpler 
control computer, and so on. Any single attribute may 
be worsened by 1 (or 3 for Armor), providing 1 Mod 
Point. This cannot be used to lower an attribute below 
1 except in the case of Speed (which can go to 0), and 
obviously the attribute must be lowerable (So, no re-
ducing a 1 to a 1 for a free Mod Point!). Furthermore, 
no matter how many Downgrades you make, you only 
receive a single extra Mod Point.
ATTRIBUTE 
MODIFICATIONS
The most basic level of mod, attribute modification lets 
you change the attribute of your drone. The one thing 
to remember is that a drone’s attributes can never by 
higher than twice their starting value (so if you had a 
Handling of 3, it can never be modified higher than 6). 
When you need to use a 0 for the math, like a micro-
drone’s Body score, use 0.5 instead. No multiplying by 
0 to get infinite free upgrades—nice try, though.
HANDLING
(Availability = Upgraded Rating x 2)
Better gyroscopes, improved shocks, spoilers and 
airdams, counterbalancing rotors, and more. Of the 
physical components, only speed is more expensive in 
the long run! Cost equals the upgraded Handling mul-
tipled by the Body, then multiplied by 200. This means 
that increasing to Handling 5 on a Body 2 drone would 
cost (5 x 2) x 200, or 10  x 200, or 2,000 nuyen.
SPEED
(Availability = Upgraded Speed x 2)
Everybody loves more speed! Bigger engines, better 
engines, louder engines! The most expensive upgrade 
for a drone, so brace for sticker shock! Cost equals the 
upgraded Speed multiplied by the drone’s Body, then 
doubled, then multiplied by 200. So increasing to a 
Speed of 5 on a Body 2 drone would cost ((5 x 2) x 2) x 
200, or (20) x 200, or 4,000 nuyen.
ACCELERATION
(Availability = Upgraded Rating x 4)
A little nitro never hurt anyone, right?  Wait, it can 
actually suffocate you? Oh. Well. Regardless! Brace for 
G-forces, it’s better Acceleration! Cost equals the up-
graded Acceleration multiplied by the drone’s Body, 
then multiplied by 200. Increasing to an Acceleration of 
2 on a Body 2 drone would cost (2 x 2) x 200, or (4) x 
200, or 800 nuyen.
BODY
(Availability = Mod Points Gained x 3)
While it cannot be upgraded, you can make some 
tradeoffs on integrity for modification diversity. That is 
to say, if you get a lighter, more fragile frame, you can do 
more things with the weight savings—but when things 
break, they break badly. Reducing the drone’s Body by 1 
produces 2 Mod Points, resulting in a net gain of 1 Mod 
Point. A drone’s Body may not be reduced lower than 
half the starting value in this way. Thus, a Body 3 drone 
may be reduced to 2 Body for 1 Mod Point, but not to 1 
as this is lower than half the starting Body, which would 
be 1.5.) 
ARMOR
(Availability = Upgraded Rating, may be R or F)
For some strange reason, people want their drones to 
survive. Funny, that! Adding armor is frowned upon by po-
lite society, however, so you might have to face a few ques-
tions from authorities worried that you’re making some 
kind of aerial assassination robot. Not that you’d do that, 
of course. Armor greater than 6 is considered Restricted, 
while Armor greater than 12 is Forbidden. In addition, Ar-
mor is heavy. A drone may bear the weight of Armor equal 
to three times its Body without a decrease in ability, but for 
every 3 points beyond this, the drone suffers –1 Handling 
and Speed, while every 6 points also reduces Acceleration 
by 1. If this results in Handling dropping below 1, or either 
Speed or Acceleration dropping below 0, then the drone 
is unable to move at all. Cost equals the upgraded Armor 
multiplied by the drone’s Body, then multiplied by 200. In-
creasing to an Armor of 15 on a Body 3 drone would cost 
(15 x 3) x 200, or 45 x 200, or 9,000 nuyen.
SENSOR
(Availability = Upgraded Sensor x 2)
Cameras to see, mics to hear, and short-range radar 
for parking. Sensors take many shapes and sizes, but 
fortunately they don’t take the size of the drone’s frame 
into account. Upgraded Sensors are thus much easier 
to calculate. The cost is equal to the upgraded Sensor 
rating x 1,000 nuyen. A single sensor may be upgraded 
instead of the entire array for (Rating) x 100 nuyen.
PILOT
More on this under Software Solutions!
OTHER MODIFICATIONS
Each of the following mods is listed with a cost in Mod 
Points, Availability, and nuyen. Not all mods are appro-
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<    123
\n\n======== PDF 125 ========\n\npriate for all drones, of course; the gamemaster is the 
final arbitrator in what is and isn’t allowed. 
WEAPON MOUNTS
Probably the most common drone mod is finding a 
way to strap weapons onto one. Due to the small size 
of drones, standard vehicle mounts aren’t always ap-
propriate, so drones use weapon mounts from the fol-
lowing chart. Each weapon mount added uses up the 
listed number of Mod Points (listed as MP), allowing 
a drone to sometimes mount several smaller weapons 
rather than a single large one. All weapon mounts are 
at least Restricted, while some are Forbidden outside of 
military use as shown. In addition, authorities are quite 
interested in what weapons are mounted in them! In 
most nations, it’s illegal for a drone to mount anything 
other than non-lethal weaponry. The CAS is a notable 
exception to this rule.
OPTION: POP-OUT MOUNTS
Ordinarily a weapon mount is quite obvious, as is the 
weapon mounted therein. Since shadowrunners tend 
to have quite illegal things mounted on their drones, 
this can be problematic, as you might imagine. There 
are two disguises for weapon mounts that can be used 
on drones. The first are blow-away panels. These are 
simple coverings that are designed to be ejected just 
before the weapon is triggered. Once blown away, the 
weapon is left exposed and obvious, but this method 
is both cheap and easy. Blow-away panels may be in-
stalled with a simple Kit, and cost 25 nuyen x the MP of 
the weapon mount. A Perception + Intuition [Mental] 
(2) Test will reveal that there’s something covered, but 
not what it is. Once the panel is blown away, it cannot 
be recovered.
The other option is “pop-up” weapons (or pop-out, 
or pop-under as the case may be). These are weapons 
stored inside the body of the drone, deployed on com-
mand (requiring a Free Action), then retracted again with 
another command (also a Free Action). Much harder to 
detect (requiring a Perception (4) Test) and re-usable, 
the mechanisms are a bit cumbersome and complex, 
adding 1 to the number of MP consumed by a weapon 
thus concealed. (For example, a standard mount with 
pop-up options would cost 4 MP.)  Pop-up mounts may 
be installed with a Shop, and they cost 100 nuyen x the 
increased MP of the weapon.
OPTION: EXPANDED 
AMMUNITION BAY
Unlike normal vehicular weapons, the tight constraints 
of a drone’s body offer limited ammunition reserves. 
JUST HOW FAST IS THAT, ANYWAY?
While the speed of many vehicles was listed in SR5 (p. 
200), there are advanced rules. Speed for drones is listed with 
an appropriate letter code indicating its type of travel: G for 
ground, R for rotor, J for jet, or W for water. When comparing 
speed across modes, note that in order of relative speed, they 
line up like this (from slowest to fastest): Water, Ground, Rotor, 
and Jet. Drones will have trouble catching up to a drone or 
vehicle traveling in a faster mode. For more information, see 
chapter nine, Maximum Pursuit. 
WEAPON MOUNTS
MOUNT
MP
AVAIL
WEAPON
Micro
0
8R
Single-shot bullet or dart. 
Mini
1
4R
Hold-out pistol, light pistol, 
reach 0 melee weapons, 
single-shot grenade
Small
2
8R
Heavy pistol, machine pistol
Standard
3
10F
Sub-machine gun, under-
barrel grenade launcher
Large
4
12F
Shotgun, hunting rifle, 
assault rifle, grenade 
launcher
Huge
5
16F
Sniper rifle, light or medium 
machine gun
Heavy
6
20F
Heavy machine gun, rocket 
launcher, assault cannon
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
124    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<
\n\n======== PDF 126 ========\n\nAny weapon mounted on a drone uses the weapon’s 
normal ammunition limits, rather than the expanded 
version of a vehicle’s. There are, however, two optional 
ammunition bays for drones. The first is simply adding 
a second bin, which holds the same number of am-
munition as the weapon ordinarily holds, and a small 
switching unit to feed the weapon when one runs dry. 
This may be installed with a Kit, uses 1 MP, and costs 
50 nuyen.
The other option is a full belt-feed system, replacing 
the weapon’s normal ammunition feed mechanism en-
tirely. This requires a shop, makes the weapon belt-fed, 
and provides enough room for an entire belt of 100 
rounds. Additional expanded ammunition bays may 
then be added, each holding another 100-round belt. A 
belt-feed system requires a Shop, uses 2 MP, and costs 
500 nuyen.
REALISTIC FEATURES
One of the most-requested modifications, realistic fea-
tures are found on several spy drones, allowing them to 
blend in with local birds or insects. This type of modifica-
tion also remains popular with anthropomorphic drones 
in an effort to humanize them. As the design approaches 
a more realistic model, the cost, as you might imagine, 
increases. Realistic features are available in four ratings, 
each rating serving as the threshold on a Perception test 
to tell if it’s machine or a living being. 
Rating 1, Availability 2, Cost (Body x Body) x 100
Rating 2, Availability 4, Cost (Body x Body ) x 500
Rating 3, Availability 8, Cost (Body x Body ) x 1,000
Rating 4, Availability 12R, Cost (Body x Body ) x 5,000	
While many drones can be made realistic (receiving 
Rating 1), allowing them to pass at a casual glance at a 
distance or at night, wheels, quad fans, and so on are 
quite difficult to disguise. Most drones cannot be given 
Realistic Features beyond Rating 1, while some cannot 
even obtain that level. (The gamemaster is the final arbi-
trator on what is and isn’t appropriate.) Realistic Features 
2 can be added with a Shop, but higher than this requires 
a Facility (most drones this realistic are designed as such 
before being sold).
AMPHIBIOUS
An amphibious drone comes in two ratings: Rating 1 
allows it to float on the surface of a body of water, as 
long as it’s relatively still, and while vulnerable to being 
submerged, it’s waterproof on the underbody. Rating 
2 Amphibious makes the entire drone waterproof, al-
lowing it to be submerged without harm. Note that in 
either case, you’ll want a motive system! Rating 1 re-
quires a Shop, 1 Mod Point, and costs (Body x Body) x 
100 nuyen. Rating 2 requires a Facility, 2 Mod Points, 
and costs (Body x Body) x 1,000 nuyen.
ASSEMBLY TIME 
IMPROVEMENT
Many drones are designed to be partially disassembled 
to allow for ease of storage and transport, most nota-
bly several winged drones whose propulsion method 
and wings can be removed so that the entire rig can 
be transported via car, then re-assembled for use. To 
assemble or disassemble a drone with this modification 
requires (Body) minutes and an appropriate Mechanics 
+ Logic test with a threshold of 2. This upgrade can be 
done with a Shop, requires 1 MP, and costs (Body) x 
100 nuyen.
CUSTOMIZED
Pure cosmetic differences, including flashing LED 
lights, snazzy paint, or chrome trim, can make a world 
of difference in making your drone what you want it 
to be. There is no game effect from these mods, but 
they’re pretty to look at! Customization can be done 
with a Kit, uses no MP, and can cost anywhere from 
10–10,000 nuyen.
DRONE ARM
Similar to a cyberarm, a drone arm is much cheaper due 
to the lack of flesh-chrome connections and sensory 
translation. Unless otherwise noted, use the standard 
cyberlimb rules, though the limb costs half of the normal 
price. (Upgrades for the arm are at full price, however.) A 
drone’s cyberlimb starts with a Strength equal to its Body 
and an Agility equal to its Pilot. If the drone is using the 
arm for a test that would normally be Agility-based, use 
the limb’s Agility, rather than the drone’s Pilot Rating. A 
drone limb may have the base drone’s starting attributes 
as much as doubled, no matter how many increases that 
is. The limb attributes may not go higher. (This means a 
Body 5 drone could have a strength increased from 5 to 
10, ignoring the usual cap of +4 to an attribute, but may 
not go higher.) Drone limb armor does not affect the 
drone in any way, but having a limb provides +1 to the 
physical condition monitor as normal. Adding a drone 
arm requires a Shop and uses 1 MP.
OPTION: PRIMITIVE ARM
While a normal drone arm has a metahuman’s level 
of functionality, some drones save money by using a 
simpler arm. These arms have brushes, or suction cups, 
with a more limited range of options. These limbs suf-
fer –2 to any limit on tests requiring fine manipulation 
or weapon use with that limb, but the limb costs ten 
percent of the normal price, rather than fifty percent.
DRONE LEG
Walkers have legs, sometimes two, usually more. These 
operate similar to a cyberleg, but much cheaper as per 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<    125
\n\n======== PDF 127 ========\n\ndrone arms. Drone speed is never based on limb Agility, 
so there is usually little point to upgrading this and, as per 
drone arms, cyberlimb armor placed on a drone doesn’t 
affect the drone in any way. Drone legs do not add extra 
boxes to the drone’s Physical condition monitor. 
GECKO GRIPS 
By coating the motive systems with gecko-glove-like 
materials, the drone can cling to virtually any surface. 
This allows it to climb vertical, or even hang upside 
down, as long as the surface has a Barrier Rating at 
least equal to the drone’s Body x 3. Gecko grips require 
a Shop, use 1 MP, and cost (Body x 3) x 50 nuyen. Note 
that larger drones may have gecko grips, but will have a 
hard time finding a surface able to hold them!
IMMOBILE
A drone that is immobile can’t move under its own 
power. These drones have a Speed and Acceleration 
of 0, which cannot be upgraded. On the positive side, 
they gain +2 Mod Points for not having a drive train. 
Making a drone immobile requires a Shop but doesn’t 
cost anything other than a day’s labor.
SKYGUIDE
By linking with SkyGuide, a drone can use the network’s 
own guidance systems to get where it needs to be. The 
downside is that the system takes priority over the own-
er’s commands, allowing the drone to be controlled by 
the Guide, or Riggers employed by SkyGuide, against 
the owner’s wishes. The upside is that SkyGuide pro-
vides both a Navigation (6) autosoft and a Maneuver (6) 
autosoft to any drone while it’s logged in to the network. 
Standard issue on flying drones sold form 2078 forward, 
it may be added to older drone with a Kit, requires 0 MP, 
and costs 5 nuyen, plus a 10 nuyen/year user fee.
SPOTLIGHT
Mounted externally, a drone spotlight acts as a flash-
light in all ways. It requires a Kit, uses 0 MP, and costs 
50 nuyen.
SUSPENSION MOD
Ground drones have an easily modified undercarriage, 
ultimately allowing the owner to replace the motive 
systems with some work. The base Handling of these 
suspensions is as follows; Standard 4/2, Tracked 3, or 
Off-road 2/4. Changing from one to another requires 
a Shop, uses no MP, and costs (Body x 3) x 100 nuyen.
TIRE MOD
Wheeled drones may have the wheels replaced in a 
pinch, serving a role roughly akin to a modified sus-
pension but not quite as good. The wheels increase the 
lower Handling Rating by 1, while lowering the better 
Handling by 2, until they are replaced again. (Thus, a 
4/2 becomes a 2/3, while a 2/4 becomes a 3/2.) This 
exchange requires a Kit, uses 0 MP, and costs (Body x 
3) x 25 nuyen. (Note that the old tires may be kept and 
this mod removed at a later time, restoring the normal 
Handling.)
SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS
What, you thought modern cars were all about me-
chanical grease monkeys and wrenches? Pfft! If you’re 
working on anything made in the past quarter-cen-
tury, you need to know computers to get it to run, 
and if you know computers, you’d know how much 
you don’t know about the subject. For the most part, 
both vehicles and drones are simple things, needing 
enough brainpower to go from A to B, do something 
when they arrive, then wait for more orders. Cars that 
come when you signal or drones that swoop over an 
area for recon are basic, but most riggers want to take 
over for anything more complex. I’m here to tell you 
that that’s not always needed. A good Pilot program 
can handle more than you think, since you’re mostly 
used to dog brains on low-end commercial models, 
and while you’ve not been paying attention, the auto-
soft market got smarter.
PILOTS
It all starts with the Pilot, the main brain of your new ma-
chine. For ninety-five percent of the people out there, the 
pilot of their car or house-cleaning drone is what they’re 
used to. It can play music, keep your car at the right 
speed, or clean up a spill, but you wouldn’t trust it with 
anything important (he says, knowing full well that most 
commuters tell their car where to go, then lean back, fire 
up their commlink, and entertain themselves until the car 
tells them that they’ve arrived, never realizing that they 
have a two-ton bullet under their butt). Security drones 
have a more advanced Pilot program, with advanced fire/
don’t fire protocols based on potential targets in the area 
(or the known value of stored supplies) that can also use 
predictive algorithms to guess where you’ll be next when 
you get out of sight. “Retail brains” are simple pilots on 
par with cars, able to do one thing, for instance your taxes 
or legal research, but nothing else. 
Then you get fancy.
Advanced Pilot programs are comparable not to 
dogs, but to small children or, in some cases, adult meta-
humans. There aren’t many that can make this claim, but 
led by military research where drones had to account 
for dozens of factors at once, Pilot programs have got-
ten smarter. I’m partial to the Djinn-IV Pilot from Saed-
er-Krupp myself; it’s like having a child around the 
house, curious about everything and capable of some 
astounding leaps of logic. The top-end programs are re-
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
126    >> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<
\n\n======== PDF 128 ========\n\nstricted to military use, but I’ve gotten my hands on a 
few and, each time, they’ve developed personalities be-
yond what I ever expected. Like the armored personnel 
carrier that liked to “dance” to the almighty Troggs.
The Pilot program determines the Rating of the drone 
as a whole, serves as the primary source of attributes for 
skill tests, serves as a cap on the highest rating autosoft 
the drone can run, and more. Is there any reason that it’s 
in such high demand? Civilian Pilot programs are generally 
Rating 2 (or, rarely, 1), restricted security Pilots are 3 to 4, 
while military-grade Pilots (5 to 6) are Forbidden for gener-
al use. Cost and Availability are shown on the chart below:
AUTOSOFTS
It all ends with autosoft programs, the detailed com-
mands that ensure a Pilot does what you want, when 
you want it. New autosofts are released every year—
some expected, some quite the surprise. They don’t 
cover all situations yet, but there’s much more a drone 
can do than spy or shoot. Some of the most common 
ones are shown below.
A Pilot program may not run an autosoft of a higher 
Rating than itself (meaning a Rating 3 Pilot may run an 
Autosoft with a Rating of 1, 2, or 3, but not 4 or high-
er). When using a rigger command console, the console 
may run a higher-Rating autosoft and share that with the 
drone, allowing it to exceed its normal capabilities. So if 
you have an Aztechnology Crawler Clearsight 6 autosoft 
slotted into your RCC, each of your Aztechnology Crawl-
ers may use it at the full value of 6.
Some skills are Restricted or Forbidden. Those will be 
indicated on the individual autosoft profile. Remember 
also that an autosoft is designed for only a single drone; 
you cannot slot a Clearsoft autosoft designed for an Az-
technology Crawler into an Evo Proletarian. (Well, you 
can; it just doesn’t do anything.) 
SMARTSOFT (RESTRICTED)
This is the same smartlink provided in eyeware or video 
enhancements, integrated into the sensors of a vehicle 
or drone. The Smartsoft is considered a Rating 3 auto-
soft and allows the full use of smart weapons.
GROUP
A shared-signal autosoft that allows each drone 
equipped with it to answer the same command, rather 
than requiring you to issue commands to one at a time. 
The Group autosoft is considered a Rating 2 autosoft.
SKILLSET
The Skillset autosoft gives the listed skill to the drone. 
The Rating can be from 1 to 6 as normal, but note that 
some Skillset autosoft are Restricted. The following 
skills may be taken as an autosoft:
Academic Knowledge (any single knowledge)
Chemistry (Restricted) 
Demolitions (Restricted)
Electronic Warfare (Restricted)
First Aid
Hardware 
Instruction
Language (any single language)
Lockpicking (Restricted)
Mechanic (any single Mechanic skill)
Medicine (Restricted)
Melee (as Targeting, but for a specific melee combat 
weapon)
Navigation
Performance (any single perform skill. Song-a-Mat 
evolves!)
Professional Knowledge (any single knowledge)
SOFTWARE TWEAKS
There are also some minor modifications that can be 
made to programs that have no real effect on the over-
all performance but allow for some customization. 
PERSONALITY
(Availability 4, Cost 100¥)
Many people treat their drones as pets, and a per-
sonality tweak can go a long way to help. A Pilot with a 
Personality will develop a “flavor” all to itself, evolving 
PILOTS
RATING
AVAIL
COST
1
4
100¥
2
—
400¥
3
8R
1800¥
4
12R
3200¥
5
16F
10,000¥
6
24F
20,000¥
AUTOSOFT PRICES
While this is in the official SR5 Errata, not everyone has 
access to the Internet and, quite frankly, there’s no better place 
to list them than Rigger 5.0. So here they are!
SOFTWARE
AVAIL
COST
Autosoft (1–6)
(Rating) x 2
(Rating) x 500
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<    127
