\n\n======== PDF 150 ========\n\nDRONE MISSILE
ARES “GARUDA”
(PILOT AIRCRAFT)
Several years ago, Ares was first-to-market with a 
rigged missile system.  The main drawback was that 
it required a rigger who was tremendously skilled to 
operate sufficiently.  Additionally, when the missile ex-
ploded, the rigger could suffer dumpshock as a result. 
Since then, Ares has been hard at work on the next it-
eration: the Garuda.
Like the mythical Indian god, the Garuda is the sort 
of missile you launch to blot out the sun.  Rather than 
a single missile that causes the rigger to suffer dump-
shock upon detonation, the Garuda is a cluster munition, 
allowing the rigger to operate the core of the drone, fire 
off the cluster rounds, and continue moving to prevent 
dumpshock.
Another major upgrade is the addition of a second-
ary launch mechanism that allows the drone to operate 
slowly at first, but then activate a booster module to gain 
speed tremendously fast.  This allows less-skilled rig-
gers to operate the Garuda in a fashion similar to most 
drones, but be able to “turn on the jets,” so to speak, in 
order to catch up with a fast-moving target.
The booster module and the cluster munition mech-
anism give the Garuda a dual purpose—it can operate 
similarly to a normal airborne drone, but can also be 
utilized as a missile.  The Garuda can be outfitted with 
anti-vehicle, fragmentation, or high explosive warheads. 
Additionally, the Garuda is small enough to be shoul-
der-launched, or it can be fired from a mounted missile 
launcher.  The Garuda is, however, incapable of under-
water operation, as the engines require oxygen.
Standard Upgrades: Launched, cluster munitions, 
laser guidance
Game Information: The cluster munitions act like 
multiple small explosives. The statistics for each war-
head type are described on the table “Grenades/Rock-
ets/Missiles” on page 435 of SR5. Note that the costs 
of these explosives are not included in the cost of the 
drone missile and must be purchased separately.
ARES ‘GARUDA’ (DRONE MISSILE)
HANDL
SPEED
ACCEL
BODY
ARM
PILOT
SENS
AVAIL
COST
6
3J/6J
2/4
2
2
4
3
20F
8,500¥
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> THE AUTOMATED ARMY <<    149
\n\n======== PDF 151 ========\n\nTurbo Bunny winced as the bullets spattered off of the 
Bulldog’s armor. She winced because she felt them, felt 
them just like sharp needles pricking her own skin. She 
also felt the wind whistling against her skin, the glare 
of the city lights, the roar of the engines in her ears, 
and the ache in her calves from the strain of running. 
As far as her brain was concerned she was the van and 
could move it just as nimbly as being able to move 
her own body. She slipped between the cars in traffic, 
keeping as many of them as she could between her and 
her pursuers. An ache in her calves let her know that 
the van couldn’t keep up this speed much longer, and 
a splitting pain in her side let her know that the vehicle 
had taken some serious damage. She had the munch-
ies too, which also meant that the Bulldog was running 
low on fuel.
Safely enclosed in her rigger cocoon, Turbo Bunny 
brought up the visual feed from the aerial drone that 
she had shadowing them. Then she saw a new problem. 
Just a couple of kilometers ahead, Knight Errant had set 
up a roadblock. A big one. Frag. She checked the road 
map: there were no exits off the highway before the 
road block. Pursuit cars were closing in from behind. 
She flipped back to the aerial view from the surveillance 
drone. Then she saw it, another way off of this road. She 
suddenly wrenched the Bulldog hard to the left, send-
ing the passengers in the back tumbling, sprawling, and 
cursing. With a flip of a mental switch, twin panels in the 
front bumper slid back to reveal rockets behind them. 
With the front of the vehicle aiming straight for the con-
crete wall that bordered the highway she fired rockets, 
smoke trails streaking straight for the wall. She pinned 
the accelerator as twin explosions sent chunks of con-
crete flying in all directions and the van sped toward the 
freshly made hole.
“Hang on,” she blasted through the van’s internal 
speakers. It was time to try out that new modification 
she had just installed. Sparks flew from the flanks of the 
vehicle, and she felt like multi-bladed razors rake her ribs 
as the vehicle ripped its way through the hole and plum-
meted into the empty space beyond. As the nose tipped 
and rushed toward the waters Puget Sound below, Turbo 
Bunny activated the brand-new modification. Her head 
rocked and her vision swam when the van hit the water. 
Once she came to her senses, Bunny checked over 
the new systems. 
Water Seals: Engaged.
Internal Air Supply: Active.
Water Jets: Ready.
“Don’t be alarmed. Please return to your seats,” she 
piped over the van’s internal speakers. “We will now 
resume travel to our previous destination by way of 
lovely, murky, and heavily polluted Puget Sound. Enjoy 
the ride.”
Turbo Bunny switched on the high-beam headlights, 
engaged the underwater propulsion system, and smiled 
to herself as the Bulldog slipped on toward the opposite 
shoreline.
RIGGER 5.0
BUILDING THE 
PERFECT BEAST
150    >> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST <<
\n\n======== PDF 152 ========\n\nMODIFICATION 
RULES
Runners who use their vehicles day in and day out to 
pull their jobs rarely want to keep them as they are off 
the shelf. In the highly competitive world of shadow-
running, runners need to get every edge they can to 
avoid winding up dead. This means riggers and others 
who use vehicles for their jobs will modify them in a 
variety of ways to suit whatever needs they have. That 
may be making them faster and more maneuverable to 
avoid pursuit, giving extra armor and weapons to turn 
them into a mobile firebase, or packing them with sur-
prise tricks to give themselves an ace up their sleeve 
for the right situation.
There are three aspects or factors in getting a modifi-
cation installed in a vehicle: parts and plan, tools, and skill.
PARTS AND PLAN
The first thing a runner needs for a modification is the 
parts and the plan, or procedures for installing the 
modification. The Modification List (p. 154) shows the 
base threshold for acquiring the parts for a modifica-
tion, which is based on its obscured and complexity. 
The gamemaster is free to modify these values if there 
are special circumstances that would make the parts 
easier or more difficult to acquire. Depending on the 
source, these parts may be provided “as is” or will have 
the plans or instructions on how to install them on the 
vehicle in question. If the parts were not provided with 
a plan, the character can attempt to find one with con-
tacts and legwork, or by doing a Matrix Search (p. 241, 
SR5) with threshold and modifiers set as appropriate by 
the gamemaster. A plan is not required to attempt the 
modification, but if available the plan provides a bonus 
to the Build/Repair Test (as per p. 146, SR5).
TOOLS
The complexity of installing a modification varies wide-
ly, but in general they all require some sort of tools. This 
can be a set of simple hand tools, ranging all the way 
up to a building full of complicated and sophisticated 
equipment. Each modification lists the required level of 
tools for the job: Kit, Shop, or Facility. If the required 
tools are not available, the modification can still be at-
tempted but will suffer the Inadequate (if not the right 
level) or Unavailable (for none at all) modifier (as per p. 
146, SR5).
SKILL
With the plan, parts, and tools all (hopefully) in place, 
the character can attempt to install the modification in 
the vehicle. Installing a modification always uses the 
Mechanic skill relevant to the vehicle (Automotive, 
Nautical, etc.). The installer makes a (Mechanic Skill) 
+ Logic [Logic] (threshold, 1 hour) Extended Test, ap-
plying all appropriate modifiers from the Build/Repair 
Table (p. 146, SR5). The process can be interrupted and 
resumed at a later time, but the gamemaster can de-
termine if some or all of the vehicle’s systems cannot 
be used until the modification is complete. Only one 
modification can be applied at a time. If a critical glitch 
is rolled, the modification automatically fails and the 
parts are ruined; the character must start over. Once 
the required hits have been accumulated, the modifica-
tion is complete and ready for use. 
If the modification list a Special Skill then one addi-
tional die roll needs to be made before the modification is 
complete. The character must succeed at a (Special Skill) 
+ Logic [Logic] (4) Test to complete the modification.
MODIFICATION SLOTS
Every vehicle has a certain number of Modification Slots 
that determines how much extra stuff can be packed 
into the vehicle. Each vehicle modification has a num-
ber of Modification Slots equal to its Body in each 
Modification Category. There are six Modification Cat-
egories: Power Train, Protection, Weapons, Body, Elec-
tromagnetic, and Cosmetic. So a GMC Bulldog with 
a Body of 16 has 16 Modification Slots in each of the 
six categories. Modifications only take up the slots for 
their category. Once a vehicle has used up the Modifi-
cation Slots for a category, no more modifications may 
be installed from the category. A vehicle cannot exceed 
its Modification Slots in any category. Not even a little.
>> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST <<    151
\n\n======== PDF 153 ========\n\nREMOVING 
MODIFICATIONS
A modification can be removed to free up the slots 
that it originally took up. This will allow further modi-
fications in that category to be installed. Removing a 
modification takes the same tools and skill(s) that the 
original modification took, but the threshold is halved. 
Removed modification parts are assumed to be not be 
reusable in any other vehicle, but they may be kept for 
re-installation in the original vehicle, at the gamemas-
ter’s discretion.
VEHICLE 
EQUIPMENT
The following are not considered modifications to the 
vehicle since they do not integrate into the systems 
of the vehicle in a significant way. They are standard 
pieces of equipment that can be purchased and easily 
installed or used.
MORPHING LICENSE PLATE
While most modern governments primarily use elec-
tronic identification for vehicles, they still require some 
sort of physical identification plate to uniquely identify 
a vehicle. Since being positively identified is something 
that an average shadowrunner wants to avoid, most in-
stall a special morphing license plate. Made from smart 
materials, a morphing license plate can reshape itself 
with a Complex Action and mimic any of the forms 
used in governments around the world today. Runners 
will typically also purchase a spoof chip (see below) to 
keep their vehicle from being identified.
SPOOF CHIP
All governments in the civilized world require that a ve-
hicle be uniquely tagged and broadcast that identifica-
tion on demand. This allows law enforcement and any 
authorized government agency (and some unautho-
rized) to quickly identify and track a vehicle. All of that 
may sound great to the common wageslave, but those 
are all things that a shadowrunner wants to avoid like 
a VITAS plague. Consequently, installing a spoof chip 
has become a common practice for anyone wanted to 
use a vehicle for their shadow activities. The spoof chip 
mimics a standard vehicle identifier chip but can be 
command with a Complex Action to change its iden-
tifier to a different random value that is arithmetically 
generated to appear authentic. Installing a spoof chip 
requires a Hardware + Logic [Logic] (2) Test.
ROAD STRIPS
Road strips use a myomeric rope to stretch out over 
a length of about fifteen meters (approximately four 
lanes of traffic) in order to cause some effect on the 
vehicle(s) that drive over it.
Spike Strip: This strip consists of sharp, penetrating 
spikes that damage the tires of any vehicle that drives 
over it. The vehicle’s tires immediately blow out unless 
they are run flat tires (see below), forcing the driver to 
make an immediate Vehicle Test to avoid crashing. Even 
if the crash is avoided, flat tires give a –2 dice pool pen-
alty on Vehicle Tests.
Zapper Strip: The zapper strip is equipped with 
hundreds of tiny “feelers” that extend upward to brush 
against the chassis of a vehicle that passes over. When a 
EXAMPLE
ADDING A MODIFICATION
Rigger X wants to add a weapon mount to his GMC 
Bulldog to provide some fire support for the team. He 
wants heavy firepower while remaining able to drive 
around downtown, so he chooses a heavy concealed 
turret weapon mount. That modification has a Slot 
cost of 8 (4 + 2 + 2 = 8), a threshold of 28 (10 + 6 + 12 
= 28), an Availability 20 (12 + 2 + 6 = 20), and a cost 
of 10,500¥. Installing it requires a Vehicle Facility. The 
Bulldog has the modification slots available, and Rig-
ger X has the nuyen from his last job. He has a chum-
mer with a Vehicle Facility he can use, and his Fixer 
owes him a favor and got him the parts. Now all that is 
left is to install the gear.
Rigger X will be making the modifications in his 
chummer’s Facility, which is in a renovated old gas 
station garage in the Barrens. Not ideal, but it’ll do 
the job. He managed to score AR-guided plans for the 
modification, giving him a +2 bonus. With his Logic of 
5 and Automotive Mechanic skill of 5, he has a total of 
12 dice for the test. Time to get to work.
On the first test, Rigger X rolls 5 hits, a good start. 
He drops down to 11 dice and keeps rolling, getting 
4 more hits and then drops down to to 10 dice. Con-
tinuing like that, Rigger X rolls hits of: 3, 3, 4, 3, 2, 2, 1, 
and 1 for the necessary 28 hits. In total, installing the 
weapon mount took Rigger X 10 hours (probably with a 
break for sleep in the middle). It was a lot of work, but 
the LMG that the Bulldog is now sporting will come in 
handy for her team!
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
152    >> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST <<
\n\n======== PDF 154 ========\n\nvehicle drives over it, the strip sounds a powerful elec-
tromagnetic pulse into the chassis of the vehicle, at-
tempting to damage its electronics. A vehicle that drives 
over a zapper strip suffers 10 DV(e) damage. A zapper 
strip has enough power for 10 discharges before need-
ing to be recharged.
Tracking Strip: The tracking strip is a subtle way to 
gather information about vehicles that pass by. Once de-
ployed, whenever a vehicle passes over a tracking strip, it 
“fires” a stealth tag (p. 440, SR5) that attaches itself to the 
vehicle. A tracking strip contains fifty stealth tags.
SPECIAL TIRES
Tires are one of the easiest ways to customize a ve-
hicle. The following tires are available for all wheeled 
ground craft. Changing tires requires a Automotive 
Mechanic + Logic [Logic] (4, 5 minutes) Extended Test; 
or you can get your brother-in-law to do it for a case of 
beer, though that tends to take longer.
Off-Road Tires: Designed specifically for rough ter-
rain, these tires are not as effective as standard tires on 
standard roads. When equipped, the vehicle’s off-road 
Handling is increased by +1, and on-road Handling is re-
duce by –1.  Off-road tires are also considered run flat 
tires (see below).
Racing Tires: The flip-side of off-road tires, racing 
tires are designed to maximize vehicle performance in 
urban conditions. When equipped, the vehicle’s on-road 
Handling is increased by +1 and off-road Handling is re-
duced by –1.
Run Flat Tires: A common upgrade for shadowrun-
ners, run flat tires are filled with a dense but flexible 
foam instead of air. They continue to operate even when 
the tire has been punctured but will quickly deteriorate if 
the tire suffers significant structure damage.
TOOL KIT
It never hurts to be prepared! A smart vehicle owner 
will purchase at least an Automotive Mechanic Kit in 
their vehicle to affect emergency repairs, and possibly 
others if the vehicle has more exotic equipment (see p. 
443, SR5).
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
>> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST <<    153
\n\n======== PDF 155 ========\n\nMODIFICATION 
LIST
Unless otherwise stated, a modification may only be 
taken once for a vehicle. When a vehicle stat such as 
Speed or Acceleration is listed as part of a modification 
attribute (like cost), use the vehicle’s base or unmodified 
value in the calculation. In the case of Handling, which 
has two values, always use the higher value in any cal-
culations.
POWER TRAIN
Power train modifications all deal with how a vehicle is 
controlled and how the vehicle moves.
ACCELERATION ENHANCEMENT
Using a variety of techniques, like adding fuel acceler-
ants (such as nitrous oxide), turbochargers, optimized 
air intakes, afterburners, or hydrofoil drives, the accel-
eration of a vehicle is increased. Due to inherent limita-
tions in a vehicle’s design, its acceleration performance 
can only be increased so far. In the end, though, there’s 
nothing like going from zero to gone before you get 
shot. Acceleration enhancement can be taken at Rating 
1 or 2, with the Rating of the modification being added 
to the vehicle’s Acceleration value.
GECKO TIPS
Using cutting-edge technology, the portion of any ve-
hicle that contacts a surface can be made to strongly 
adhere to that surface. With the gecko tips modifica-
tion, small vehicles can be made to literally climb walls 
or adhere to surfaces at an extremely sharp angle. The 
larger and heavier a vehicle is, the more extensive the 
modifications that are necessary to make the gecko tips 
system work. There are definite limits to the technolo-
gy however, as it can only practically be installed on 
small mass vehicles and still allow them to move. If the 
gecko technology was applied to larger vehicles, they 
would literally rip away chunks of the surface they were 
adhered to if they tried to move. A vehicle installed 
with gecko tips can move on surfaces with angles that 
would otherwise be impossible, including vertically.
GLIDING SYSTEM
For those rare but frightening times when you find your 
(non-flying) vehicle plummeting to the ground, you’ll 
thank the Great Ghost you installed a gliding system. 
The gliding system deploys a large-scale parachute 
and uses a series of small thrusters installed on the 
hull of the vehicle to provide limited maneuverability 
while descending. For vehicles with an exceptional-
ly large mass, there is an upgraded system that uses 
other methods, including multiple parachutes and ret-
ro-thrusters, to slow the descent. While the system al-
lows a vehicle to fall and not be utterly destroyed, the 
landing is far from graceful. When it lands, the vehicle 
takes (Body / 2) damage just as if it had crashed (p. 201, 
SR5). Owners planning on using the gliding system on 
a regular basis will often install a Passenger Protection 
System (see p. 159). After it has been deployed, the 
parachute(s) in the gliding system can be released with 
a wireless or manual command. Repacking the para-
chute(s) for reuse is a manual process requiring about 
one hour.
HANDLING ENHANCEMENT
By adjusting the suspension and/or adjusting the work-
ings of control systems, a vehicle can be made more 
responsive to manual or electronic controls. This can 
range from optimizing control system response times, 
to more dramatic changes like gyroscopic stabilizers, 
or destabilizing the structural integrity of the hull. Han-
dling enhancement can be taken with a Rating of 1 to 
3, with the Rating added to the Handling (both on-road 
and off-road) of the vehicle.
IMPROVED ECONOMY
With this modification, the fuel consumption of the ve-
hicle has been optimized to use the minimum amount 
necessary for standard operation. Additionally, the ve-
hicle is fitted with a variety of different means to gather 
operational power from the environment around it in-
cluding sunlight, static electricity, and wind. A vehicle 
with improved economy doubles its operational time 
as long as it is operating within normal parameters—no 
high speed chases.
MANUAL CONTROL OVERRIDE
For runners that are extra paranoid about the Matrix 
security on their vehicle (or just unwilling to pay for 
>> RIGGER 5.0 <<
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
NAME
AVAIL
COST
Morphing license plate
8F
1,000¥
Spoof chip
8F
500¥
Spike strip
8R
200¥
Zapper strip
12R
2,500¥
Tracking strip
8R
600¥
Off-road tires
6
400¥/tire
Racing tires
6
250¥/tire
Run flat tires
4
250¥/tire
154    >> BUILDING THE PERFECT BEAST <<
